https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/dragons/dragon/-primal-brine
Brine dragon
LN dragon (extraplanar, water)
BASE STATISTICS
CR 3; Size Tiny; Hit Dice 4d12
Speed 60 ft., swim 60 ft.
Natural Armor +3; Breath Weapon line, 2d6 acid
Str 16, Dex 15, Con 11, Int 13, Wis 10, Cha 11
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Capsize (Ex) An old or older brine dragon can attempt to capsize a boat or ship by ramming it as a charge attack and making a CMB check. The DC of this check is 25 or the result of the boat captain’s Profession (sailor) check, whichever is higher. For each size category larger the ship is than the brine dragon’s size, the dragon takes a cumulative –10 penalty on the check.
Desiccating Bite (Su) An Ancient brine dragon’s bite causes weakness, dealing 1d2 points of Strength drain in addition to its normal damage. A great wyrm’s bite deals 1d4 points of Strength drain. A Fortitude save (DC equals the dragon’s breath weapon save DC) negates the Strength drain.
Painful Strikes (Su) A great wyrm brine dragon’s natural attacks are so laden with salt and acidic crystals that every time it strikes a creature with one of these attacks, the target must make a Fortitude save (DC equals the dragon’s breath weapon save DC) or be stunned for a round from the pain.
Spell-like Abilities (Sp) A brine dragon gains the following spell-like abilities, usable at will (unless indicated otherwise) at the listed age.
Very young—speak with animals (fish only); Young—obscuring mist; Juvenile—water breathing; Adult—control water; Ancient—horrid wilting (3/day); Great wyrm—tsunami* (3/day). Age Category Special Abilities Caster Level
Wyrmling Immunity to acid, water breathing —
Very Young speak with animals (fish only) —
Young obscuring mist 1st
Juvenile water breathing 3rd
Young Adult DR 5/magic, spell resistance 5th
Adult Frightful presence, control water 7th
Mature Adult DR 10/magic 9th
Old Capsize 11th
Very Old DR 15/magic 13th
Ancient Desiccating Bite, horrid wilting 15th
Wyrm DR 20/magic 17th
Great Wyrm Painful Strikes, tsunami* 19th
