https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/dragons/dragon/chromatic-white
White Dragon
CE dragon (cold)
BASE STATISTICS
CR 2; Size Tiny; Hit Dice 3d12
Speed 60 ft., burrow 30 ft., swim 60 ft.
Natural Armor +2; Breath Weapon cone, 2d4 cold
Str 11, Dex 16, Con 13, Int 6, Wis 9, Cha 6
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Blizzard (Su) An ancient white dragon can use its breath weapon to create a blizzard in the area around it as a standard action. This creates heavy snow conditions in a 50-foot radius for 1 minute, centered on the dragon. This snow slows movement (4 squares of movement per square entered) and limits vision as fog does.
Cold Aura (Su) An adult white dragon radiates an aura of cold. All creatures within 5 feet of the dragon take 1d6 points of cold damage at the beginning of the dragon’s turn. An old dragon’s aura extends to 10 feet. An ancient dragon’s damage increases to 2d6.
Freezing Fog (Sp) An old white dragon can use this ability three times per day. It is similar to an acid fog spell but deals cold damage instead of acid damage. It also causes a rime of slippery ice to form on any surface the fog touches, creating the effect of a grease spell. The dragon is immune to the grease effect because of its icewalking ability. This ability is the equivalent of a 6th-level spell.
Ice Shape (Su) A young white dragon can shape ice and snow at will. This ability functions as stone shape, but only targeting ice and snow, not stone. A white dragon’s caster level for this effect is equal to its Hit Dice.
Ice Tomb (Sp) A great wyrm can, as a standard action, cause a creature to sink into ice. This works as imprisonment, but only while the target is touching an icy surface. A white dragon can use this ability once per day (CL equals dragon’s HD). Targets entombed by this ability can be freed by casting freedom or by physically freeing the creature from the ice (Hardness 0, 360 hit points). The save DC is Charisma-based.
Icewalking (Ex) This ability works like the spider climb spell, but the surfaces the dragon climbs must be icy. The dragon can move across icy surfaces without penalty and does not need to make Acrobatics checks to run or charge on ice.
Snow Vision (Ex) A very young white dragon learns to see perfectly well in snowy conditions. A white dragon does not suffer any penalties to Perception checks while in snow.
Age Category Special Abilities Caster Level
Wyrmling Icewalking, cold subtype —
Very young Snow vision —
Young Ice shape —
Juvenile Fog cloud —
Young adult DR 5/magic, spell resistance, gust of wind —
Adult Cold aura, frightful presence 1st
Mature adult DR 10/magic 3rd
Old Freezing fog 5th
Very old DR 15/magic 7th
Ancient Blizzard, wall of ice 9th
Wyrm DR 20/magic 11th
Great wyrm Ice tomb, control weather 13th
