https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/dragons/dragon/chromatic-green
Green Dragon
LE dragon (air)
BASE STATISTICS
CR 4; Size Small; Hit Dice 5d12
Speed 40 ft., swim 40 ft.
Natural Armor +4; Breath Weapon cone, 2d6 acid
Str 13, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 10
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Awaken Treants (Su) A great wyrm dragon can call on the forest itself to aid it, animating a number of trees to serve as treants to protect it. These treants can be called from any Huge or larger living tree. A green dragon can create a single treant as a standard action, up to a total of 4 treants per day. These treants remain animated for up to 1 hour, at which time they revert to being ordinary trees.
Camouflage (Ex) An old or older green dragon can use Stealth to hide in any sort of natural terrain, even if the terrain does not grant cover or concealment.
Miasma (Su) An ancient or older green dragon can use its breath weapon to create a cloud of acid as a standard action that deals damage to any creature inside it. The cloud moves with the dragon and has a radius of 20 feet. When it’s created, anyone inside this area takes an amount of damage equal to half the dragon’s breath weapon, with a Reflex save for half damage. The number of damage dice rolled is halved each round until the result would be less than 1d6. Any creature that starts its turn inside the cloud takes damage, but can make a Reflex save for half. A strong wind, such as that created by a gust of wind, disperses the cloud in 1 round.
Spell-Like Abilities (Sp) A green dragon gains the following spell-like abilities, usable at will upon reaching the listed age category.
Young—entangle; Juvenile—charm person; Adult—suggestion; Old—plant growth; Ancient—dominate person; Great wyrm—command plants. Trackless Step (Ex) An adult or older green dragon does not leave a trail in natural surroundings and cannot be tracked. A green dragon can choose to leave a trail, if it so desires.
Water Breathing (Ex) A green dragon can breathe underwater indefinitely and can freely use its breath weapon, spells, and other abilities while submerged.
Woodland Stride (Ex) A very young or older green dragon can move through any sort of foliage at full speed without taking damage or suffering impairment. Areas of foliage that have been magically manipulated affect it normally.
Age Category Special Abilities Caster Level
Wyrmling Immunity to acid, water breathing —
Very young Woodland stride —
Young Entangle —
Juvenile Frightful presence, charm person 1st
Young adult DR 5/magic, spell resistance 3rd
Adult Trackless step, suggestion 5th
Mature adult DR 10/magic 7th
Old Camouflage, plant growth 9th
Very old DR 15/magic 11th
Ancient Miasma, dominate person 13th
Wyrm DR 20/magic 15th
Great wyrm Awaken treants, command plants 17th
Subpages
Green Dragon, Adult Green Dragon, Ancient Green Dragon, Great Wyrm Green Dragon, Juvenile Green Dragon, Mature Adult Green Dragon, Old Green Dragon, Very Old Green Dragon, Very Young Green Dragon, Wyrm Green Dragon, Wyrmling Green Dragon, Young Green Dragon, Young Adult
