https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/dragons/dragon/chromatic-blue
Blue Dragon
LE dragon (earth)
BASE STATISTICS
CR 5; Size Small; Hit Dice 6d12
Speed 40 ft., burrow 20 ft.
Natural Armor +5; Breath Weapon line, 2d8 electricity
Str 13, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 10
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Desert Thirst (Su) A blue dragon can cast create water at will (CL equals its HD). Alternatively, it can destroy an equal amount of liquid in a 10-foot burst. Unattended liquids are instantly reduced to sand. Liquid-based magic items (such as potions) and items in a creature’s possession must succeed on a Will save. The save DC is Charisma-based.
Electricity Aura (Su) An adult blue dragon is surrounded by an aura of electricity. Creatures within 5 feet take 1d6 points of electricity damage at the beginning of the dragon’s turn. An old dragon’s aura extends to 10 feet. An ancient dragon’s damage increases to 2d6.
Mirage (Su) An old or older blue dragon can make itself appear to be in two places at once as a free action for a number of rounds per day equal to its Hit Dice. This ability functions as project image but the dragon can use its breath weapon through the mirage.
Sandstorm (Su) As a standard action, a great wyrm blue dragon can create a sandstorm centered on itself with a radius of 1,200 feet. Creatures other than the dragon inside the storm take 2d6 points of damage per round in addition to the normal sandstorm penalties. This sandstorm lasts for up to 1 hour, but can be dismissed by the dragon as a free action.
Sound Imitation (Ex) A very young or older blue dragon can mimic any voice or sound it has heard by making a successful Bluff check against a listener’s Sense Motive check.
Spell-Like Abilities (Sp) A blue dragon gains the following spell-like abilities, usable at will upon reaching the listed age category.
Young—ghost sound; Juvenile—minor image; Adult—ventriloquism; Old—hallucinatory terrain; Ancient—veil; Great wyrm—mirage arcana. Storm Breath (Su) An ancient or older blue dragon can use its breath weapon to create a storm of lightning. This functions as call lightning storm, but the damage is equal to the dragon’s breath weapon. The dragon can call down 1 bolt per round as a free action for 1d6 rounds. The save DC is equal to the dragon’s breath weapon DC. Additional uses of this ability extend the duration by an additional 1d6 rounds.
Age Category Special Abilities Caster Level
Wyrmling Desert thirst, immune to electricity —
Very young Sound imitation —
Young Ghost sound —
Juvenile Frightful presence, minor image 1st
Young adult DR 5/magic, spell resistance 3rd
Adult Electricity aura, ventriloquism 5th
Mature adult DR 10/magic 7th
Old Mirage, hallucinatory terrain 9th
Very old DR 15/magic 11th
Ancient Storm breath, veil 13th
Wyrm DR 20/magic 15th
Great wyrm Sandstorm, mirage arcana 17th
Subpages
Blue Dragon, Adult Blue Dragon, Ancient Blue Dragon, Great Wyrm Blue Dragon, Juvenile Blue Dragon, Mature Adult Blue Dragon, Old Blue Dragon, Very Old Blue Dragon, Very Young Blue Dragon, Wyrm Blue Dragon, Wyrmling Blue Dragon, Young Blue Dragon, Young Adult
