https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/dragons/dragon/chromatic-red
Red Dragon
CE dragon (fire)
BASE STATISTICS
CR 6; Size Small; Hit Dice 7d12
Speed 40 ft.
Natural Armor +6; Breath Weapon cone, 2d10 fire
Str 17, Dex 14, Con 15, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 10
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Fire Aura (Su) An adult red dragon is surrounded by an aura of intense heat. All creatures within 5 feet take 1d6 points of fire damage at the beginning of the dragon’s turn. An old dragon’s aura extends to 10 feet. An ancient dragon’s damage increases to 2d6.
Incinerate (Su) A great wyrm red dragon can incinerate creatures in its fiery breath. A creature reduced to fewer than 0 hit points by its breath weapon must make a Fortitude save (using the breath weapon’s DC). Failure indicates that the creature is reduced to ash. Creatures destroyed in this way can only be restored to life through true resurrection or similar magic.
Manipulate Flames (Su) An old or older red dragon can control any fire spell within 10 feet per age category of the dragon as a standard action. This ability allows it to move any fire effect in the area, as if it were the caster. This ability also allows it to reposition a stationary fire effect, although the new placement must be one allowed by the spell. Finally, for 1 round following the use of this ability, the dragon can control any new fire spell cast within its area of control, as if it were the caster. It can make all decisions allowed to the caster, including canceling the spell if it so desires.
Melt Stone (Su) An ancient or older red dragon can use its breath weapon to melt rock at a range of 100 feet, affecting a 5-foot-radius area per age category. The area becomes lava to a depth of 1 foot. Any creature in contact with the lava takes 20d6 points of fire damage on the first round, 10d6 on the second, and none thereafter as the lava hardens and cools. If used on a wall or ceiling, treat this ability as an avalanche that deals fire damage.
Smoke Vision (Ex) A very young red dragon can see perfectly in smoky conditions (such as those created by pyrotechnics).
Spell-Like Abilities (Sp) A red dragon gains the following spell-like abilities, usable at will upon reaching the listed age category.
Age Category Special Abilities Caster Level
Wyrmling Fire subtype —
Very young Smoke vision —
Young Detect magic 1st
Juvenile Frightful presence, pyrotechnics 3rd
Young adult DR 5/magic, spell resistance 5th
Adult Fire aura, suggestion 7th
Mature adult DR 10/magic 9th
Old Manipulate flames, wall of fire 11th
Very old DR 15/magic 13th
Ancient Melt stone, find the path 15th
Wyrm DR 20/magic 17th
Great wyrm Incinerate, discern location 19th
