https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/dragons/dragon/metallic-bronze
Bronze Dragon
LG dragon (water)
BASE STATISTICS
CR 5; Size Small; Hit Dice 6d12
Speed 40 ft., swim 60 ft.
Natural Armor +5; Breath Weapon line, 2d6 electricity
Str 13, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 14
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Change Shape (Su) A young or older bronze dragon can take any animal or humanoid form 3/day as if using polymorph.
Electricity Aura (Su)
An old or older bronze dragon has an aura of electricity. All creatures within 5 feet take 1d6 points of electricity damage at the start of the dragon’s turn. An ancient dragon’s aura is 10 feet. A great wyrm’s damage increases to 2d6. A bronze dragon can suppress this aura at will.
Repulsion Breath (Su) Instead of a line of electricity, a bronze dragon can breathe a cone of repulsion gas. Targets must make a Will save or be compelled to do nothing but move away from the dragon for 1d6 rounds plus 1 round per age category. This is a mind-affecting compulsion effect.
Spell-Like Abilities (Sp)
A bronze dragon gains the following spell-like abilities, usable at will upon reaching the listed age category.
Very young—speak with animals; Juvenile—create food and water; Adult—fog cloud; Old—detect thoughts; Ancient—control water; Great wyrm—control weather. Tidal Wave (Su)
A great wyrm bronze dragon can cause the sea to rise up and crush his enemies once per day as a standard action. This affects an area of coastline 120 feet in length and targets all creatures within 40 feet of the shore—treat the targets as if struck by an avalanche (Pathfinder RPG Core Rulebook 429). Treat all creatures as if they were in the bury zone. The save DC to halve this damage is equal to the dragon’s breath weapon DC. Those who fail their saves take full damage and are drawn 60 feet off shore and deposited 20 feet under the surface on the round after the wave hits.
Vortex (Ex)
Once per day, an ancient or older bronze dragon can create a vortex as a standard action, just like an elder water elemental. A bronze dragon can maintain this vortex for 1 round per age category.
Water Breathing (Ex) A bronze dragon breathes water and can use its breath weapon, spells, and abilities underwater.
Wave Mastery (Su)
For up to 10 minutes per age category per day, a juvenile bronze dragon, along with creatures or vessels within 50 feet, can move at twice its normal speed in water.
Age Category Special Abilities Caster Level
Wyrmling Immunity to electricity, repulsion breath, water breathing —
Very young Speak with animals —
Young Change shape 1st
Juvenile Wave mastery, create food and water 3rd
Young adult DR 5/magic, spell resistance 5th
Adult frightful presence, fog cloud 7th
Mature adult DR 10/magic 9th
Old Electricity aura, detect thoughts 11th
Very old DR 15/magic 13th
Ancient Vortex, control water 15th
Wyrm DR 20/magic 17th
Great wyrm Tidal wave, control weather 19th
