https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/dragons/dragon/metallic-silver
Silver Dragon
LG dragon (cold)
BASE STATISTICS CR 6; Size Small; Hit Dice 7d12
Speed 40 ft.
Natural Armor +6; Breath Weapon cone, 2d8 cold
Str 13, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 14
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Change Shape (Su)
A silver dragon can assume any animal or humanoid form 3/day as if using polymorph.
Cloudwalking (Su) A very young or older silver dragon can tread on clouds or fog as though on solid ground.
Cold Aura (Su) An old or older silver dragon is surrounded by an aura of cold. All creatures within 5 feet of the dragon take 1d6 points of cold damage at the beginning of the dragon’s turn. An ancient dragon’s aura extends to 10 feet. A great wyrm’s aura damage increases to 2d6. A silver dragon can suppress or activate this aura at will as a free action.
Fog Vision (Ex) A juvenile or older silver dragon can see perfectly well in fog and clouds.
Graceful Flight (Ex) A young or older silver dragon’s aerial maneuverability is one step better than normal.
Paralyzing Breath (Su) Instead of a cone of cold, a silver dragon can breathe a cone of paralyzing gas. Creatures within the cone must succeed on a Fortitude save or be paralyzed for 1d6 rounds plus 1 round per age category of the dragon.
Reflective Scales (Su) Any spell that targets an ancient or older silver dragon but fails to penetrate the silver dragon’s spell resistance might be reflected. If the caster level check to penetrate the dragon’s spell resistance is failed by 5 or more, the spell is reflected. If the check fails by 4 or less, the spell is merely wasted. This otherwise functions as spell turning.
Spell-Like Abilities (Sp) A silver dragon gains the following spell-like abilities, usable at will upon reaching the listed age category.
Very young—detect evil; Juvenile—feather fall; Adult—fog cloud; Old—control winds; Ancient—control weather; Great wyrm—reverse gravity. True Courage (Ex) A great wyrm silver dragon can fight on through pain and death. When reduced to below 0 hit points, it remains conscious, automatically stabilizes, and can continue to act (although it is staggered). If it takes damage or is the target of a spell that causes its death, it remains alive for 1 round and can act normally (it is not staggered for this final round).
Age Category Special Abilities Caster Level
Wyrmling Change shape, cold subtype, immune to acid, paralyzing breath —
Very young Cloudwalking, detect evil —
Young Graceful flight 1st
Juvenile Fog vision, feather fall 3rd
Young Adult DR 5/magic, spell resistance 5th
Adult Frightful presence, fog cloud 7th
Mature adult DR 10/magic 9th
Old Cold aura, control winds 11th
Very old DR 15/magic 13th
Ancient Reflective scales, control weather 15th
Wyrm DR 20/magic 17th
Great wyrm True courage, reverse gravity 19th
