https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/dragons/dragon/metallic-gold
Gold Dragon
LG dragon (fire)
BASE STATISTICS
CR 7; Size Small; Hit Dice 8d12
Speed 60 ft., swim 60 ft.
Natural Armor +7; Breath Weapon cone, 2d10 fire
Str 17, Dex 14, Con 15, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 14
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Change Shape (Su) A very young or older gold dragon can assume any animal or humanoid form three times per day as if using polymorph.
Detect Gems (Sp) A young or older gold dragon can detect gems three times per day. This functions as locate object, but can only be used to locate gemstones.
Divine Aid (Sp) Once a week, a great wyrm gold dragon can call upon celestial powers for aid. This functions as a miracle.
Fast Flight (Ex) A young or older gold dragon is treated as one size category larger when determining his fly speed.
Fire Aura (Su) An old or older gold dragon is surrounded by an aura of fire. All creatures within 5 feet of the dragon take 1d6 points of fire damage at the beginning of the dragon’s turn. An ancient gold dragon’s aura extends to 10 feet. A great wyrm’s damage increases to 2d6. The dragon can activate or suppress this aura as a free action.
Luck (Sp) Once per day an adult or older gold dragon can touch a gem, usually one embedded in the dragon’s hide, and enspell it to bring good luck. As long as the dragon carries the gem, it and every good creature within a given radius of it (10 ft. per age category) receives a +1 luck bonus on all saving throws. If the dragon gives an enspelled gem to another creature, only that bearer gets the bonus. The effect lasts 1d3 hours plus 3 hours per age category of the dragon. This ability is the equivalent of a 2nd-level spell.
Spell-Like Abilities (Sp) A gold dragon gains the following spell-like abilities upon reaching the listed age category. Its caster level for these effects is equal to its Hit Dice, and any save DCs are Charisma-based. A gold dragon can use these abilities at will.
Very young—detect evil Juvenile—bless Adult—daylight Old—geas/quest Ancient—sunburst Great wyrm—foresight Weakening Breath (Su) Instead of a cone of fire, a gold dragon can breathe a cone of weakening gas. Creatures within the cone must succeed on a Fortitude save or take 1 point of Strength damage per age category (Will save half).
Age Category Special Abilities Caster Level
Wyrmling Fire subtype, weakening breath —
Very young Change shape, detect evil —
Young Fast flight, detect gems 1st
Juvenile Bless 3rd
Young Adult DR 5/magic, spell resistance 5th
Adult Frightful presence, luck, daylight 7th
Mature adult DR 10/magic 9th
Old Fire aura, geas/quest 11th
Very old DR 15/magic 13th
Ancient Sunburst 15th
Wyrm DR 20/magic 17th
Great wyrm Divine aid, foresight 19th
