https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/dragons/dragon/metallic-copper
Copper Dragon
CG dragon (earth)
BASE STATISTICS
CR 4; Size Tiny; Hit Dice 5d12
Speed 40 ft.
Natural Armor +4; Breath Weapon line, 2d6 acid
Str 11, Dex 16, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 12
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Climb Stone (Ex)
A copper dragon can climb on stone surfaces as though using the spider climb spell.
Deadly Joke (Sp)
Once per day, as a standard action, a great wyrm copper dragon can tell a joke that kills. This affects one target, and functions as power word kill. This is a language-dependent sonic effect.
Mass Laughter (Sp)
An ancient copper dragon can tell a fantastic joke once per day as a standard action. All creatures within 10 feet per age category must make a Will save or laugh for 1 round per age category, as if affected by hideous laughter. The save DC is Charisma-based. This is equal to a 6th-level spell.
Slow Aura (Su)
An old or older copper dragon is surrounded by an aura of slowness. All creatures within 5 feet of the dragon must make a Will save or be affected as per slow for 1 round. An ancient dragon’s aura extends to 10 feet. For great wyrm copper dragons, those opponents that fail their saves are slowed for 1d4 rounds. The DC of this save is equal to the dragon’s breath weapon. A copper dragon can suppress or activate this aura at will as a free action.
Slow Breath (Su)
Instead of a line of acid, a copper dragon can breathe a cone of slowing gas. Those in the cone must make a Fortitude save or be slowed (as per the spell slow) for 1d6 rounds plus 1 round per age category of the dragon.
Spell-Like Abilities (Sp)
A copper dragon gains the following spell-like abilities, usable at will upon reaching the listed age category. Very young—grease; Juvenile—hideous laughter; Adult—stone shape; Old—transmute rock to mud/mud to rock; Ancient—wall of stone; Great wyrm—move earth.
Trap Master (Ex)
A juvenile or older copper dragon receives a +1 bonus per age categroy on Craft (traps) and Perception checks made to locate a trap. Upon becoming a mature adult, he can also use Disable Device to disarm magic traps as if he had the rogue’s Trapfinding class feature.
Uncanny Dodge (Ex)
A young or older copper dragon is always looking out for an ambush. He can never be caught flat-footed. This ability functions like the rogue ability of the same name.
Age Category Special Abilities Caster Level
Wyrmling Immunity to acid, climb stone, slow breath —
Very young Grease —
Young Uncanny dodge 1st
Juvenile Trap master, hideous laughter 3rd
Young adult DR 5/magic, spell resistance 5th
Adult Frightful presence, stone shape 7th
Mature adult DR 10/magic 9th
Old Slow aura, transmute rock/mud 11th
Very old DR 15/magic 13th
Ancient Mass laughter, wall of stone 15th
Wyrm DR 20/magic 17th
Great wyrm Deadly joke, move earth 19th


