https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/plants/basidirond
Basidirond CR 5
XP 1,600
N Medium plant
Init +1; Senses low-light vision, tremorsense; Perception +0
DEFENSE
AC 18, touch 11, flat-footed 17 (+1 Dex, +7 natural)
hp 52 (7d8+21)
Fort +8, Ref +3, Will +2
Immune cold, plant traits
Weaknesses cold lethargy
OFFENSE
Speed 20 ft.
Melee slam +10 (1d8+7 plus spores)
Special Attacks hallucination cloud, spores
STATISTICS
Str 20, Dex 13, Con 16, Int —, Wis 11, Cha 1
Base Atk +5; CMB +10; CMD 21 (25 vs. trip)
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Hallucination Cloud (Ex) As a standard action once per minute, a basidirond can release a cloud of invisible spores in a 20-foot radius. All creatures within the area must succeed on a DC 16 Fortitude save or be affected by powerful hallucinations as long as they remain in the cloud plus 1d4 rounds after leaving the area. A new save must be made each round a creature remains within the affected area. A hallucination cloud persists for 5 rounds before dispersing—a strong wind causes it to disperse immediately. The save DC is Constitution-based. To determine what hallucination is suffered each round, roll 1d6 and consult the following table.
d6 Hallucination
You’re sinking in quicksand! Fall prone and spend 1 round flailing your arms and legs as if trying to swim. Attacked by a swarm of spiders! Spend a full round action to attack the floor near you with your weapon. An item you hold has turned into a viper! Drop it and flee from the item at top speed for 1 round. You’re suffocating! Stand in place, hold your breath, and clutch at your throat for 1 round. You’ve shrunk to 1/10th your normal size! Take no actions for 1 round and monsters won’t see you. You’re melting! Grasp hold of yourself in an attempt to hold yourself together, and take no actions for 1 round. Spores (Ex) Any creature struck by a basidirond’s slam attack is coated with spores. The creature struck must make a DC 16 Fortitude save or these spores take root in his flesh, and particularly in his lungs. The save DC is Constititon-based.
Basidirond Spores: Disease—inhaled; save Fort DC 16; frequency 1/round for 6 rounds; effect 1d2 Con damage; cure 1 save.
Cold Lethargy (Ex) Although a basidirond is immune to cold damage, any cold effect it is exposed to slows it for 1d4 rounds. During this time, the basidirond cannot use its hallucination cloud or spores.
