https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/plants/bloodsuckle
Bloodsuckle CR 6
XP 2,400
N Large plant
Init +4; Senses blindsight 30 ft., host sense 100 ft.; Perception +11
DEFENSE
AC 17, touch 9, flat-footed 17 (+8 natural, –1 size)
hp 68 (8d8+32)
Fort +10; Ref +4; Will +4
Immune plant traits
OFFENSE
Speed 0 ft. (immobile)
Melee 2 tendrils +9 (1d4+3 plus grab plus create host) or 4 limb rakes +8 (1d6+3)
Space 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft. (30 ft. with tendrils)
Special Attacks blood drain, create host, seed, summon host
STATISTICS
Str 16, Dex 10, Con 18, Int 6, Wis 11, Cha 11
Base Atk +6; CMB +10 (+14 grapple); CMD 20 (can’t be tripped)
Feats Improved Initiative, Iron Will, Lightning Reflexes, Weapon Focus (tendril)
Skills Perception +11
Languages summon host (see below)
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Blood Drain (Ex) A bloodsuckle that grapples a foe can drain blood, dealing 1d4 points of Constitution damage each round that the hold is maintained. Once it has dealt 8 points of Constitution damage, it releases victim so it can use it again later as a food source. Bloodsuckles never kill those they have transformed into hosts unless they are extremely hungry.
Create Host (Ex) A bloodsuckle that strikes a living target with a tendril injects a special poison sap into the victim that requires a DC 18 Will save, or the victim is transformed into a host. This acts as a dominate monster spell (caster level 8th) with no limit on its duration. Immunity or resistance to poison applies normally to this sap. The save DC is Constitution based.
A victim that becomes a host returns to the plant whenever it calls. It is normally used by the bloodsuckle for feeding purposes, but if the plant comes under attack may be summoned for defense. A host with an Intelligence score of 3 or higher that is commanded to act in a manner inconsistent with its alignment (such as attacking allies) is allowed another Will save with a +4 bonus to break the bloodsuckle’s control.
Host Sense (Ex) A bloodsuckle automatically senses the location of any hosts within 100 feet.
Seed (Ex) Once per month, a bloodsuckle can generate a walnut-sized seed that it implants in a host’s body. The host wanders off and 1d4 days later, the seed breaks open growing a new bloodsuckle inside the host. Each day a host remains implanted with this seed, it takes 1d4 points of Constitution damage. When its Constitution reaches 0, the host dies and a new bloodsuckle erupts from the corpse and takes root. A remove disease spell destroys the seedling.
Summon Host (Ex) As free action, a bloodsuckle can generate a high-pitched whine that only its hosts can hear. A host that hears this call proceeds immediately at its highest rate of speed and in the most direct route toward the plant. The whine can be heard by a host within 2 miles of the bloodsuckle.
