https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/aberrations/boggart-fgg
Boggart CR 5
XP 1,600
CE Small aberration (air, shapechanger)
Init +4; Senses darkvision 60 ft.; Perception +12
DEFENSE
AC 21, touch 16, flat-footed 15 (+4 Dex, +1 dodge, +5 natural, +1 size)
hp 39 (6d8+12)
Fort +3; Ref +6; Will +6
Immune magic
OFFENSE
Speed 20 ft.
Melee slam +9 (2d6 electricity)
Special Attacks confusion, electrical discharge, feed
Spell-like Abilities (CL 1st)
10/day—invisibility
STATISTICS
Str 12, Dex 19, Con 15, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 14
Base Atk +4; CMB +4; CMD 19
Feats Alertness, Blind-Fight, Dodge, Weapon FinesseB
Skills Acrobatics +13 (+11 jumping), Bluff +8, Escape Artist +13, Fly +13, Perception +12, Stealth +17
SQ change shape (boggart, will-o’-wisp, polymorph any object), detect thoughts, invisibility
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Change Shape (Su) A boggart’s natural form is that of a small humanoid (resembling a young gnome, halfling, or goblin). It has one other form: that of a small, immature will-o’-wisp. In humanoid form, a boggart assumes the same appearance and traits of its form, much as a lycanthrope would. In humanoid form, a boggart retains all of its special attacks and special qualities.
The second form is that of a will-o-‘wisp. In this form, a boggart is nearly indistinguishable from a normal will-o’-wisp, but a DC 18 Knowledge (dungeoneering) or Perception check reveals that the boggart is in fact smaller and brighter. A boggart can assume either form as a standard action, though it cannot maintain either one for longer than 1 minute (10 rounds).
A change in form cannot be dispelled, nor does the boggart revert to its true natural form when slain. A true seeing spell reveals the boggart’s natural form if it is in will-o’-wisp form.
Confusion (Su) Once per day, as a full-round action, a boggart can unleash a screech that confuses all those hearing it within 30 ft. of the boggart. The confusion lasts for 6 rounds. An affected creature can make a DC 15 Will save to negate the effects. Each additional boggart within 10 feet that joins the screeching increases the save DC by +1. The save DC is Charisma-based.
Detect Thoughts (Su) A boggart can continuously detect thoughts as the spell (caster level 8th). It can suppress or resume this ability as a free action.
Electricity (Su) A boggart delivers 2d6 points of electricity damage with a successful slam attack (DC 15 Fortitude for half). The save DC is Constitution-based.
Electrical Discharge (Su) Once every other round as a standard action, a boggart can discharge a bolt of electricity in a 10-foot line. The bolt deals 2d6 points of electricity damage (DC 15 Reflex save for half). The save DC is Constitution-based.
Feed (Su) When a boggart slays a humanoid opponent, it can feed on the corpse, devouring both flesh and life force, as a full-round action. Feeding destroys the victim’s body and prevents any form of raising or resurrection that requires part of the corpse. There is a 50% chance that a wish, miracle, or true resurrection spell can restore a devoured victim to life. Check once for each destroyed creature. If the check fails, the creature cannot be brought back to life by mortal magic.
A boggart advances in Hit Dice by consuming corpses in this fashion. For every three suitable corpses a boggart devours, it gains 1 Hit Die, and its Strength, Constitution, and natural armor increase by +1. Its attack bonus and saves improve as normal for an aberration of its Hit Dice, and it gains skill ranks, feats, and ability score improvements normally.
The boggart only advances by consuming the corpses of creatures whose Hit Dice or levels are equal to or greater than its own current total. A boggart that reaches 9 Hit Dice through feeding immediately becomes a will-o’-wisp upon completion of the act.
Immunity to Magic (Ex) Boggarts are immune to most spells or spell-like abilities that allow spell resistance, except magic missile, protection from evil, magic circle against evil, and maze.
