https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/magical-beasts/carbuncle
Carbuncle CR 1
XP 400
N Tiny magical beast
Init -2; Senses darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision; Perception +1
DEFENSE
AC 12, touch 10, flat-footed 12 (-2 Dex, +2 natural, +2 size)
hp 13 (2d10+2)
Fort +4, Ref +1, Will +3
Weaknesses vulnerability to suggestion
OFFENSE
Speed 20 ft.
Melee bite +1 (1d3-3)
Special Attacks fatal faker, specious suggestion
Spell-Like Abilities (CL 3rd; concentration +3)
3/day—daze (DC 10), jump, levitate (self only, up to 10 feet)
STATISTICS
Str 5, Dex 7, Con 12, Int 6, Wis 13, Cha 10
Base Atk +2; CMB -2; CMD 5 (9 vs. trip)
Feats Iron Will
Skills Stealth +10 (+14 in grass or brush), Survival +2; Racial Modifiers -4 Acrobatics when jumping, +4 Stealth in grass or brush
Languages empath 30 ft.
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Empath (Su) Carbuncles possess a crude form of telepathy, allowing them to transmit mild impressions and remembered sensations to other creatures. This form of telepathy cannot convey language or hinder a target in any way (such as by transmitting pain). Thus, a carbuncle can relate a feeling of fear or the faint smell ofleaves, but cannot directly warn an ally of a monster or tell of a treasure under a dirt mound.
Fatal Faker (Su) As a standard action three times per day, a carbuncle can teleport as per the spell dimension door, but only within a range of 30 feet. Upon teleporting, the carbuncle leaves behind a perfect replica of itself amid a colored flash and the sound of a reptilian choke. This replica duplicates the carbuncle in all ways, though it is obviously dead and the colorless stone in its head is reduced to worthless dust.
Specious Suggestion (Su) As a standard action three times per day, a carbuncle can concentrate intently on one creature within its line of sight and attempt to impose its will upon the target. A DC 11 Will save is enough to resist this compulsion. If the target fails to resist, roll 1d6. On a result of 1-2, the target gains a flash of insight and a +2 insight bonus to its Armor Class for 1 minute. On a result of 3-4, the victim is affected as if by suggestion for 1 minute, and must follow a single (usually embarrassing, always harmless) suggestion from the carbuncle. On a result of 5-6, the victim’s thoughts are garbled with those of the carbuncle, imposing a -2 penalty to the victim’s Will saving throws for 1 minute. This is a mind-affecting effect. The save DC is Charisma-based.
Vulnerability to Suggestion (Ex) Any mind-affecting spell can affect a carbuncle regardless of creature type limitations. A spell like charm person, for example, which typically only affects humanoid creatures, can also affect carbuncles.
