https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/vermin/clam-giant
Clam, Giant CR 2
XP 600
N Large vermin (aquatic)
Init –5; Senses blindsight 30 ft.; Perception +0
DEFENSE
AC 14, touch 4, flat-footed 14 (–5 Dex, +10 natural, –1 size)
hp 26 (4d8+8)
Fort +6; Ref –4; Will +1
Defensive Abilities camouflage
Immune mind-affecting effects
OFFENSE
Speed 5 ft.
Space 10 ft.; Reach 5 ft.
Special Attacks acid, engulf
TACTICS
Giant clams simply wait until an unsuspecting opponent swims too close to its current position. When a creature at least one size smaller than the clam swims within reach, it sucks the prey into its interior and clamps shut. It slowly digests its meal and expels any indigestible material (such as metal and stone) into the surrounding water. Air-breathers trapped by a giant clam face the danger of drowning as well.
STATISTICS
Str 20, Dex 1, Con 15, Int —, Wis 10, Cha 9
Base Atk +3; CMB +9; CMD 14
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Acid (Ex) A giant clam has a slow-acting acid that it uses to break down organic matter trapped in its interior. An engulfed creature takes 1d2 points of acid damage each round.
Engulf (Ex) As a standard action, a giant clam can attempt to pull a creature up to one size smaller than itself that is within reach into its interior. An opponent can make an attack of opportunity against the clam, but if it does so it is not entitled to a saving throw. An opponent that does not attempt an attack of opportunity must succeed on a DC 17 Reflex save or be pulled into the clam’s interior. An engulfed creature is subject to the clam’s acid, and is considered to be grappled and trapped within its body. The save DC is Strength-based. A giant clam can be forced open by making an opposed Strength check against the clam’s Strength check. Otherwise, it opens on its own in 1d4 hours.
Camouflage (Ex) The rough shell of a giant clam is usually draped with barnacles, anemones, and bits of coral, which help it to blend in with its environment. Creatures must succeed on a DC 20 Perception check to notice a giant clam. Anyone with ranks in Survival or Knowledge (any water- or sea-related skill) can use one of those skills instead of Perception to notice the giant clam.
