https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/undead/clawed-kadian
Clawed Kadian CR 9
XP 6,400
CE Medium undead (incorporeal)
Init +5; Senses darkvision 60 ft.; Perception +16; Aura slow aura (30 ft., DC 19)
DEFENSE
AC 20, touch 20, flat-footed 14 (+4 deflection, +5 Dex, +1 dodge)
hp 93 (11d8+44)
Fort +7; Ref +10; Will +9
Defensive Abilities channel resistance +4, incorporeal; Immune undead traits
Weaknesses affected by bludgeoning
OFFENSE
Speed fly 30 ft. (perfect)
Melee incorporeal touch +14 touch (1d8 Dexterity damage plus incorporeal grab)
Special Attacks create spawn, spiked body
STATISTICS
Str —, Dex 21, Con —, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 18
Base Atk +8; CMB +13 (+17 grapple); CMD 28
Feats Dazzling Display, Dodge, Lightning Reflexes, Step Up, Weapon Focus (incorporeal touch), Wind Stance
Skills Diplomacy +15, Fly +27, Intimidate +18, Linguistics +13, Perception +16, Stealth +19
Languages Aklo, Aquan, Auran, Common, Dwarven, Elven, Giant, Halfling, Ignan, Shadowspeak, Sylvan, Terran, Undercommon
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Affected by Bludgeoning (Su) While a clawed kadian is an incorporeal creature, it is affected by bludgeoning weapons. A mundane bludgeoning weapon deals 50% damage, and a magic bludgeoning weapon deals its normal damage.
Create Spawn (Su) A humanoid slain by a clawed kadian rises as a clawed kadian in 1d4 rounds. A spawn so created is less powerful than a typical clawed kadian, and suffers a –2 penalty on all d20 rolls and checks, receive –2 hp per HD, and only deals 1d6 Dexterity damage. A spawn is under the command of the clawed kadian that created it and remains enslaved for a year and a day, at which point it lose the spawn penalties and becomes a full-fledged and free-willed clawed kadian. A clawed kadian spawn does not possess any of the abilities it had in life.
Dexterity Damage (Su) A clawed kadian’s touch deals 1d8 points of Dexterity damage to a living creature. This is a negative energy effect. A creature dies if this Dexterity damage equals or exceeds its actual Dexterity score.
Incorporeal Grab (Su) As part of an incorporeal touch attack, a clawed kadian can grab a corporeal creature’s spirit, grappling them. The clawed kadian is treated as corporeal when initiating and maintaining a grapple; it is, however, treated as an incorporeal creature for all other purposes, such as opponents attempting to attack the clawed kadian. When the clawed kadian is grappling a creature, it can take the following actions: move, damage (from its incorporeal touch instead of its spiked body), and pin. It cannot tie up an opponent.
Slow Aura (Su) When a creature comes within 30 ft. of the clawed kadian, it is overcome with lethargy and find they cannot move as quickly as normal. A creature that fails a Will save DC 19 can only take a standard action or a move action on their turn, not both. This effect counts as the slow spell for purposes of dispelling and being dispelled by haste and lasts for 6 rounds. Creatures that successfully save cannot be affected by the same creature’s slow aura for 24 hours. Clawed kadians are immune to this ability. The save DC for this ability is Charisma-based.
Spiked Body (Su) A clawed kadian’s body has a number of large spikes on its body. Anyone grappled by the clawed kadian’s incorporeal grab takes 1d3 points of Dexterity damage every round the grapple persists.
