https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/oozes/colour-out-of-space
Colour Out of Space CR 10
XP 9,600
CN Huge ooze (incorporeal)
Init +12; Senses blindsense 120 ft.; Perception +18; Aura lassitude (300 ft., DC 22)
DEFENSE
AC 23, touch 23, flat-footed 14 (+6 deflection, +8 Dex, +1 dodge, –2 size)
hp 126 (12d8+72)
Fort +10, Ref +14, Will +10
Defensive Abilities amorphous, incorporeal; Immune acid, cold, fire, mind-affecting effects, ooze traits, poison, sonic; SR 21
Weaknesses susceptible to force effects
OFFENSE
Speed 30 ft., fly 50 ft. (perfect)
Melee disintegrating touch +15 touch (6d6; DC 22)
Space 15 ft.; Reach 15 ft.
Special Attacks feed
STATISTICS
Str —, Dex 26, Con 22, Int 19, Wis 23, Cha 23
Base Atk +9; CMB +19; CMD 36 (can’t be tripped)
Feats Dodge, Improved Initiative, Lightning Reflexes, Mobility, Spring Attack, Weapon Finesse
Skills Fly +27, Knowledge (geography) +16, Knowledge (nature) +16, Knowledge (planes) +16, Perception +18, Stealth +12
Languages Aklo (can’t speak)
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Aura of Lassitude (Su) A creature within 300 feet of a colour out of space (even when the colour is hiding within a solid object) must succeed at a DC 22 Will save or become overwhelmed with listlessness and ennui. While under this effect, the creature takes a –4 penalty on all Will saving throws, and doesn’t willingly travel farther than a mile from the area where it failed its saving throw against that colour’s aura of lassitude. A break enchantment spell (DC 22) ends the effect, as does removing the victim from the aura’s area of effect. Every 24 hours, a creature affected by an aura of lassitude can attempt a new DC 22 Will save to cast off the effects of the aura. A creature that succeeds at this saving throw is immune to that colour’s aura of lassitude for 24 hours. A creature that is under the effects of an aura of lassitude from a colour out of space can’t be further affected by this ability from other colours. This is a mind-affecting effect. The save DC is Charisma-based.
Disintegrating Touch (Su) A colour’s touch causes a terrible disintegration of flesh and bone. A successful DC 22 Fortitude save halves the damage caused by a colour out of space’s touch attack. A creature reduced to 0 hit points by a colour out of space’s touch attack must succeed at a DC 22 Fortitude save or be immediately slain and reduced to a pile of fine ash. The save DC is Constitution-based.
Feed (Su) A colour can attempt to feed on any living creature or a region of plant life as a full-round action. If it feeds on a single creature, the colour must have line of sight and be within 300 feet of the target. If it feeds on a region of plant and animal life, it only needs to be within that region. It can attempt to feed on a region once per week, and upon a living creature at will (but only once per day per living creature). Feeding on a region of plant life is automatically successful, blighting that region of plant life as if by a diminish plants spell used to stunt growth. A creature can resist being fed upon by a colour out of space by succeeding at a DC 22 Will save, in which case the colour must wait 24 hours before attempting to feed on that creature again. If this saving throw fails, the victim takes 1d4 points of Charisma drain and Constitution drain. The save DC is Charisma-based.
A creature whose Constitution score is drained to 0 by a colour out of space’s feed attack immediately dies, crumbling into a mass of desiccated tissue.
A creature whose Charisma score is drained to 0 by a colour out of space’s feed attack gains the colour-blighted simple template. Every time a colour successfully feeds on a creature, it gains 1 growth point. A colour out of space can never have more than 100 growth points—it can expend 100 growth points after spending 24 hours concentrating on its growth, and in so doing gains 1 permanent Hit Die.
Susceptible to Force Effects (Ex) A colour out of space takes half again as much damage (+50%) from force effects, and takes a –4 penalty on all saving throws to resist force effects. A colour out of space can’t damage force effects with its disintegrating touch. Its aura of lassitude and feed ability is blocked if the colour is completely entrapped by force effects (such as by a windowless cell version of forcecage or a telekinetic sphere).
