https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/outsiders/demon/demon-lilitu
Lilitu CR 17
XP 102,400
CE Medium outsider (chaotic, demon, evil, extraplanar, shapechanger)
Init +9; Senses darkvision 60 ft., true seeing; Perception +34
Aura unholy aura (DC 26)
DEFENSE
AC 34, touch 24, flat-footed 28 (+4 deflection, +5 Dex, +1 dodge, +10 natural, +4 profane)
hp 263 (17d10+170)
Fort +19, Ref +23, Will +20
Defensive Abilities evasion, profane grace; DR 10/cold iron and good; Immune electricity, poison; Resist acid 10, cold 10, fire 10; SR 28
OFFENSE
Speed 60 ft., fly 60 ft. (good)
Melee 4 claws +25 (2d8+8/19–20), tail slap +20 touch (1d6+4 plus branding)
Special Attacks create husk, husk link, profane pact, swift claws
Spell-Like Abilities (CL 17th; concentration +25)
Constant—fly, tongues, true seeing, unholy aura (DC 26)
At will—charm monster (DC 22), detect thoughts (DC 20), greater teleport (self plus 50 lbs. of objects only), suggestion (DC 21), telekinesis (DC 23)
3/day—quickened charm monster (DC 22), persistent image (DC 23), seeming (DC 23)
1/day—demand (DC 26), dominate monster (DC 27), project image (DC 25), summon (level 5, 1 lilitu 20%, 1d2 glabrezus 40%, or 1d6 vrocks 50%)
1/week—binding (DC 26), wish (granted to a mortal humanoid only)
STATISTICS
Str 27, Dex 20, Con 30, Int 21, Wis 23, Cha 26
Base Atk +17; CMB +25; CMD 49
Feats Critical Focus, Deceitful, Dodge, Improved Critical (claw), Mobility, Power Attack, Quicken Spell-Like Ability (charm monster), Spring Attack, Staggering Critical
Skills Acrobatics +25, Bluff +40, Diplomacy +28, Disguise +29, Fly +37, Intimidate +25, Knowledge (local, nobility) +25, Knowledge (religion) +22, Perception +34, Sense Motive +26; Racial Modifiers +8 Bluff, +8 Perception
Languages Abyssal, Celestial, Draconic; telepathy 100 ft.; tongues
SQ change shape (Small or Medium humanoid; alter self), profane wishcraft
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Branding (Su) Each time a lilitu damages a living creature with her tail slap, the wound leaves an angry and permanent red brand. The creature struck becomes staggered for 1 round from the pain. A successful DC 26 Will save negates the staggered condition and reduces the duration of the brand from permanent to 1 hour. The save DC is Charisma-based.
Removing brands is difficult—each casting of restoration, dispel chaos, or dispel evil removes one brand. Heal removes 1d4+4 brands. Greater restoration removes a number of brands equal to the spell’s caster level. Miracle and wish can each remove all brands at once. The number of brands a creature gains in this manner has a cumulative series of effects, as listed below.
1–3 Brands: The lilitu can affect the branded creature with its create husk, husk link, and profane pact abilities.
4–6 Brands: The branded creature takes a –2 penalty on all Will saves made against a lilitu’s spells, spell-like abilities, and supernatural abilities. The branded creature’s aura now radiates chaos and evil.
7–9 Brands: The branded creature’s Wisdom score is reduced by 4. A chaotic evil creature is immune to this effect.
10 or More Brands: The penalties to the creature’s Will saves and Wisdom score that are listed above double. In addition, the branded creature automatically fails all Will saves made against a lilitu’s spells, spell-like abilities, and supernatural abilities. A chaotic evil creature is immune to this effect.
Create Husk (Su) Once per day as a swift action, when a lilitu deals enough damage with a weapon, spell, or spell-like ability to kill a branded Small or Medium humanoid within 30 feet, she can instead opt to transform that slain humanoid into a husk. The targeted creature can attempt a DC 26 Fortitude save to negate this effect, allowing it to die normally. A humanoid transformed into a husk withers away into an immobile and desiccated corpse, but does not actually die—in this state, the creature remains aware of its surroundings but can take no actions at all. A husk is essentially treated as an object with hardness 15 and 60 hit points; it weighs 10% of the original creature’s weight. If a husk is destroyed, the effect ends and the body dies. This is a curse effect—removing this curse restores the victim to life at a number of negative hit points equal to the creature’s Constitution – 1; a husk restored to life in this way has 1 round to stabilize or be healed before it dies. A lilitu can maintain a number of husks simultaneously equal to her Charisma bonus (8 husks for the typical lilitu); if she creates more husks than she can maintain, a previously created husk (chosen by the lilitu) is released and immediately dies. Lilitus hide their husk collections in very safe places. The save DC is Charisma-based.
Husk Link (Su) By spending a minute in blasphemous contact with a husk she created, a lilitu can establish a supernatural link to that husk. As long as she and that husk remain on the same plane, divination spells reveal the linked husk’s alignment to be the same as the lilitu’s alignment (chaotic evil). The link allows a lilitu to use her change shape ability to assume a husk’s original form, gaining a +20 bonus on Disguise checks to impersonate that person. If a lilitu with an active husk link takes enough damage to be slain, the husk takes the killing blow’s damage instead and is destroyed, instantly severing the active husk link; if the lilitu is disguised in the husk’s original form, she instantly reverts to her true form.
Profane Grace (Su) A lilitu gains a +4 profane bonus to AC and on Initiative checks and Reflex saves.
Profane Pact (Su) Once per day as a full-round action, a lilitu can forge a profane pact with a willing humanoid creature bearing at least one lilitu brand by touching the creature for 1 full round. A single creature can have no more than one profane pact with a lilitu at any time. This functions identically to a succubus’s profane gift ability, save that it grants a +4 profane bonus to an ability score of the humanoid’s choice and it does not grant a telepathic link to the target.
Profane Wishcraft (Su) A creature that accepts a wish from a lilitu immediately becomes chaotic evil unless it succeeds at a DC 26 Will save. A creature that becomes chaotic evil in this way gains the benefits of a good hope spell for 24 hours, followed by the effects of crushing despair for 1d6 days (these spell effects function at CL 17th). The save DC is Charisma-based.
Swift Claws (Ex) When a lilitu makes a full attack, she can attack twice with each of her claws, for a total of four attacks in that round.
