https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/monstrous-humanoids/derro-fetal-savant-kp
Derro Fetal Savant CR 7
XP 3,200
CE Tiny monstrous humanoid
Init -5; Senses darkvision 60 ft.; Perception +6
DEFENSE
AC 11, touch 11, flat-footed 11 (+4 cage cover, -5 Dex, +2 size)
hp 7 (2d10-4)
Fort +2 Ref +5, Will +7
Immune confusion, insanity; SR 21;
Vulnerable sunlight
OFFENSE
Speed 5 ft.
Space 2-1/2 ft.; Reach 0 ft.
Special Attack babble, soul exchange
STATISTICS
Str 1, Dex 1, Con 6, Int 6, Wis 5, Cha 20 (see madness below)
Base Atk +2; CMB -5; CMD 0
Feats Ability Focus (babble)
Skills Perception +6, Stealth +8; Racial Modifiers +4 Perception
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Babble (Su) The sight of potential host bodies so excites the fetal savant that, as a free action, it begins to babble and giggle madly and childishly, creating an insanity effect. All sane creatures within 60 ft. of the fetal savant must succeed on a DC 18 Will save or be affected as though by confusion for 1d4 rounds This is a sonic, mind-affecting, compulsion effect. Creatures that successfully save cannot be affected by the same fetal savant’s babbling for 24 hours. Saving throws are Charisma-based.
Enchanted Cage (Ex) The iron bars of the cage that holds the fetal savant provide cover for the creature. The cage has a hardness of 10 and 30 hp and is considered an attended object when borne by a derro. In addition, the cage can absorb up to 20 spell levels of spells 4th level or lower. This spell energy dissipates almost immediately and cannot be retained, collected, or reused in any way.
Vulnerability to Sunlight (Ex) A derro takes 1 point of Constitution damage for every hour it is exposed to sunlight, and it dies if its Constitution score reaches 0. Lost Constitution points are recovered at the rate of 1/day spent underground or otherwise sheltered from the sun.
Madness (Ex) Derro use their Charisma modifiers on Will saves instead of their Wisdom modifiers. They have immunity to confusion and insanity effects. A derro cannot be restored to sanity by any means short of miracle or wish. The racial madness of the derro provides a +6 bonus to Charisma and a -6 penalty to Wisdom. A derro restored to sanity gains 6 points of Wisdom and loses 6 points of Charisma.
Soul Exchange (Sp) As a full-round action, the fetal savant can attempt to take control of a creature within 90 ft., forcing an exchange of souls as magic jar (CL 10th) but without a receptacle.
