https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/magical-beasts/divine-guardian
Divine Guardian Hydra CR 5
The divine guardian hydra presented here is built using a hydra. This divine guardian hydra is a divine guardian of the god of nature and the weather, thus giving it the air and water subtypes.
XP 1,600
N Huge magical beast (air, water)
Init +5; Senses darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision, scent; Perception +16
DEFENSE
AC 15, touch 9, flat-footed 14 (+1 Dex, +6 natural, –2 size)
hp 47 (5d10+20); fast healing 5
Fort +8, Ref +5, Will +5
Defensive Abilities ability healing; Immune disease, mind-affecting effects, poison
OFFENSE
Speed 40 ft., fly 40 ft. (perfect), swim 40 ft.
Melee 5 bites +7 (1d8+3)
Space 15 ft.; Reach 10 ft.
Special Attacks pounce
Spell-Like Abilities (CL 5th; concentration +6)
At will—dimension door (within sacred site only)
3/day—alarm, knock
1/day—arcane lock, augury, clairaudience/clairvoyance, hold portal
STATISTICS
Str 17, Dex 12, Con 18, Int 6, Wis 15, Cha 13
Base Atk +5; CMB +10; CMD 21 (can’t be tripped)
Feats Combat Reflexes, Iron Will, Weapon Focus (bite)
Skills Fly +9, Perception +16, Sense Motive +7, Swim +11; Racial Modifiers +7 Perception, +5 Sense Motive
Languages Draconic
SQ blessed life, divine swiftness, hydra traits, regenerate head, sacred site
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Ability Healing (Ex) A divine guardian heals 1 point of ability damage per round in each damaged ability score.
Blessed Life (Ex) A divine guardian does not age or breathe. It does not require food, drink, or sleep.
Divine Swiftness (Ex) A divine guardian hydra is gifted with incredible speed, granting it a +4 bonus on initiative rolls. In addition, each of the base creature’s speeds is doubled.
Hydra Traits (Ex) A hydra can be killed by severing all of its heads or slaying its body. Any attack that is not an attempt to sever a head affects the body, including area attacks or attacks that cause piercing or bludgeoning damage. To sever a head, an opponent must make a sunder attempt with a slashing weapon targeting a head. A head is considered a separate weapon with hardness 0 and hit points equal to the hydra’s HD. To sever a head, an opponent must inflict enough damage to reduce the head’s hit points to 0 or less. Severing a head deals damage to the hydra’s body equal to the hydra’s current HD. A hydra can’t attack with a severed head, but takes no other penalties.
Regenerate Head (Ex) When a hydra’s head is destroyed, two heads regrow in 1d4 rounds. A hydra cannot have more than twice its original number of heads at any one time. To prevent new heads from growing, at least 5 points of acid or fire damage must be dealt to the stump (a touch attack to hit) before they appear. Acid or fire damage from area attacks can affect stumps and the body simultaneously. A hydra doesn’t die from losing its heads until all are cut off and the stumps seared by acid or fire.
Sacred Site (Ex) Each divine guardian is assigned to guard a specific site sacred to the deity that invested it with power. This area may be a structure, a series of structures, or a natural site with clearly defined borders. It can be as large as a city, but in most cases it’s a single temple or a sacred grove. Gods don’t waste their powers on places that their worshipers can protect, so most divine guardians keep watch over abandoned burial grounds or lost temples. The divine guardian of such a site is charged with protecting it from harm and preventing incursions by those not of the faith. It must keep its vigil until the god deems the guardian’s task done.
If the divine guardian ever moves out of the area defined as the sacred site, it immediately loses the divine guardian template and any spellcasting ability the deity might have granted from class levels. It cannot regain the template unless it atones for its failure (usually by completing some quest or via an atonement spell) and reenters the site within 1 week. Otherwise, it loses the template permanently, taking 6d6 points of Constitution drain as the years of lost food, drink, and sleep return to it tenfold. A creature that lacks a Constitution score takes 2d6 points of damage per Hit Die from this process. Even if it survives the Constitution drain, the creature can never regain the template.
