https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/constructs/doll-soulbound
Soulbound Doll CR 2
XP 600
N (see below) Tiny construct
Init +6; Senses darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision; Perception +3
DEFENSE
AC 15, touch 14, flat-footed 13 (+2 Dex, +1 natural, +2 size)
hp 19 (3d10+3)
Fort +1, Ref +3, Will +1
DR 2/magic; Immune construct traits
Weaknesses susceptible to mind-affecting effects
OFFENSE
Speed 20 ft.
Melee dagger +3 (1d2–2/19–20)
Space 2-1/2 ft.; Reach 0 ft.
Spell-Like Abilities (CL 3rd, concentration +2)
3/day—light, mage hand, open/close, prestidigitation
1/day—levitate, one additional ability dependent on alignment
STATISTICS
Str 7, Dex 14, Con –, Int 11, Wis 10, Cha 9
Base Atk +3; CMB +3; CMD 11
Feats Improved Initiative, Toughness
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +13
Languages Common
SQ alignment variation, soul focus
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Alignment Variation (Ex) Soulbound dolls are at least partially neutral in alignment, although they can also be chaotic, evil, good, or lawful. They have an alignment-dependent spell-like ability usable once per day as listed below.
Chaotic Neutral: rage Lawful Neutral: suggestion (DC 12) Neutral: deep slumber (DC 12) Neutral Evil: inflict serious wounds (DC 12) Neutral Good: heroism Susceptible to Mind-Affecting Effects (Ex) The weakened conviction of a soulbound doll’s soul makes it susceptible to mind-affecting effects, despite the fact that it is a construct.
Soul Focus (Su) The soul bound to the doll lives within a focus integrated into the doll or its apparel, typically one of the doll’s eyes or a gem embedded into its neck or chest. As long as this soul focus remains intact, it can be used to animate another doll, using the same cost as creating a new construct. Once bound into the soul focus, the soul continues to learn, and so if later it is put into a new doll body, the soul retains its personality and memories from its previous body or bodies. A soul focus has hardness 8, 12 hit points, and a break DC of 20.
Variants Soulbound Doll Summoner 9 (CR 10) Construction A soulbound doll’s body is made from wood, stone, or porcelain, with one exquisite item worth at least 300 gp to serve as the soul focus. Creation requires a soul fragment from a deceased creature that must die at some point during the creation of the doll—as a result, most soulbound dolls are created by evil spellcasters. Other spellcasters can create soulbound dolls, but if the donor soul is unwilling, they may have alignment repercussions. An unwilling soul can resist the procedure with a DC 20 Will save. Stripping a soul fragment from the dead does not prevent the rest of the soul from continuing on to the afterlife, nor does it prevent the body from later being resurrected or raised from the dead.
CL 7th; Price 4,300 gp
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
Craft Construct, false life, lesser geas, magic jar, minor creation, soul of a living creature who dies or is slain during the creation process; Skill Craft (sculptures); Cost 2,300 gp.
