https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/outsiders/dream-spectre-nightmare-creature-tohc
Dream Spectre CR 9
XP 6,400
NE Medium outsider (evil, extraplanar, incorporeal)
Init +8; Senses darkvision 60 ft., dreamsense 100 ft.; Perception +17
DEFENSE
AC 19, touch 19, flat-footed 13 (+4 deflection, +4 Dex, +1 dodge)
hp 67 (9d10+18)
Fort +5; Ref +10; Will +9
Defensive Abilities incorporeal
Weaknesses sunlight powerlessness
OFFENSE
Speed fly 60 ft. (perfect)
Melee incorporeal touch +13 (1d4 plus 1d4 Charisma)
Special Attacks Charisma damage, heart-stopping fear, nightmare, sleep
TACTICS
A dream spectre prefers to attack sleeping creatures so it can use its Charisma damaging attack without interruption as well as destroy the target’s dreams with its nightmare ability. A creature that awakens or discovers a dream spectre (such as a sentry or guard) is targeted by its sleep attack. Dream spectres attack with their incorporeal touch in combat.
STATISTICS
Str —, Dex 18, Con 15, Int 15, Wis 16, Cha 18
Base Atk +9; CMB +13; CMD 28 (can’t be tripped)
Feats Alertness, Blind-Fight, Dodge, Combat Reflexes, Improved Initiative
Skills Bluff +15, Diplomacy +12, Fly +16, Intimidate +16, Knowledge (any one) +13, Knowledge (planes) +10, Perception +17, Sense Motive +17, Stealth +16, Survival +15
Languages Common, Dreamspeak
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Charisma Damage (Su) Any creature hit by a dream spectre’s incorporeal touch attack takes 1d4 points of Charisma damage. At Charisma 0, the victim falls into a nightmare-filled coma until at least 1 point of Charisma is restored.
Sunlight Powerlessness (Ex) A dream spectre caught in sunlight cannot attack and is staggered.
Dreamsense (Su) A dream spectre can automatically pinpoint the presence of dreams within 100 feet. This ability only works against sleeping creatures.
Heart-Stopping Fear (Su) By revealing its true form to a living creature, a dream spectre instills heart-stopping fear in its foe. A creature viewing the dream spectre must succeed on a DC 18 Will save or suffer a heart attack and be reduced to 0 hit points. On the next round the creature drops to –1 hit point and is dying. Whether or not the save is successful, that creature is immune to the heart-stopping fear attack of that dream spectre for one day. This ability only functions against creatures that are awake. The save DC is Charisma-based.
Nightmare (Su) As a full-round action, a dream spectre can touch a sleeping creature and warp and twist its dreams into violent, chaotic nightmares. An affected creature must succeed on a DC 18 Will save or be affected as by a nightmare spell. The save DC is Charisma-based.
Sleep (Su) As a full-round action, a dream spectre can induce sleep in a single creature it touches with its incorporeal touch attack. An affected creature must succeed on a DC 18 Will save or fall asleep for 1 minute. The save DC is Charisma-based.
