https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/magical-beasts/eye-killer--tohc
Eye Killer CR 4
XP 1,200
CE Medium magical beast
Init +2; Senses darkvision 120 ft., low-light vision; Perception +10
DEFENSE
AC 17, touch 12, flat-footed 15 (+2 Dex, +5 natural)
hp 45 (6d10+12)
Fort +7; Ref +7; Will +2
Weaknesses sunlight vulnerability
OFFENSE
Speed 30 ft.
Melee tail slap +10 (1d8+4 plus grab)
Ranged eye ray +9 ranged touch (death gaze)
Special Attacks constrict (1d8+4)
TACTICS
The eye killer is very territorial and attacks any living creature that enters an area currently under its watchful eye. If the intruders a wield light source (magical flame, a lantern, or the like), the eye killer attacks using its eye ray ability by absorbing the light (from the source) into its eyes and releasing it in a bright flash of yellow light at its chosen target; otherwise, it dispatches the trespassers by grappling with its tail and squeezing. Eye killers flee if confronted with bright light, but otherwise are relentless in combat and always fight to the death.
STATISTICS
Str 16, Dex 14, Con 14, Int 2, Wis 10, Cha 12
Base Atk +6; CMB +9 (+13 grapple); CMD 21 (can’t be tripped)
Feats Improved Natural Attack (tail slap), Power Attack, Weapon Focus (tail slap)
Skills Perception +10, Stealth +8; Racial Modifiers +4 Perception
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Death Gaze (Ex) By using natural or magical light that illuminates it (meaning the eye killer must be within the radius covered by a natural or magical light source), an eye killer can amplify the light and refocus it in a line that functions as a death ray to a range of 50 feet. The eye killer must make a ranged touch attack against its target as a standard action. If successful, the creature struck must make succeed on a DC 15 Fortitude save or perish. Even if the save succeeds, the victim takes 3d6 points of damage. An eye killer can use this gaze once per day. The save DC is Constitution-based.
Eye killers are immune to their own gaze attack and to the gaze attack of other eye killers. If the eye killer’s gaze attack is reflected back upon it, it amplifies the intensity and projects it at a new target as an immediate action. The save DC to resist this gaze is increased by +2.
Sunlight Vulnerability (Ex) If natural sunlight (including a daylight spell) is brought within 5 feet of an eye killer, it immediately releases a grappled foe and attempts to move as far away from the source of light as possible. On subsequent rounds, an eye killer is dazzled as long as it remains within 5 feet of the light source.
