https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/aberrations/fleshdreg
Fleshdreg CR 1
XP 400
NE Small aberration
Init +1; Senses darkvision 60 ft., sin-scent; Perception +4
DEFENSE
AC 14, touch 12, flat-footed 13 (+1 Dex, +2 natural, +1 size)
hp 13 (2d8+4)
Fort +2, Ref +3, Will +3
Immune mind-affecting effects; SR 12
OFFENSE
Speed 30 ft.
Melee bite +3 (1d6+1 plus sinful bite)
STATISTICS
Str 12, Dex 13, Con 15, Int 6, Wis 11, Cha 12
Base Atk +1; CMB +1; CMD 12
Feats Lightning Reflexes
Skills Acrobatics +5, Escape Artist +5, Perception +4, Stealth +9
Languages Aklo
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Sinful Bite (Su) Each fleshdreg possesses an additional attack depending on its sin type. The save DCs are Charisma-based.
Envy: An envy fleshdreg’s bite attack can temporarily interfere with magic. If an envy fleshdreg deals damage with its bite attack to any creature under a magic effect, the fleshdreg attempts a dispel check as if it were caster level 3rd against the spell effect with the highest caster level. If the dispel check is successful, the effect is suppressed for 1d4 rounds.
Gluttony: A gluttony fleshdreg’s bite attack can wither and weaken the body of the creature it attacks. Any creature that takes damage from a gluttony fleshdreg’s bite attack must succeed at a DC 12 Fortitude save or become fatigued. Subsequent uses of this ability do not cause a bitten creature to become exhausted.
Greed: A greed fleshdreg’s bite can twist and warp the body of a creature it attacks. Any creature that takes damage from a greed fleshdreg’s bite attack must succeed at a DC 12 Fortitude save or have its speed reduced by half and take a –2 penalty to Strength and Dexterity for 1d6 rounds.
Lust: A lust fleshdreg’s bite can addle the mind of the creature it attacks. Any creature that takes damage from a lust fleshdreg’s bite attack must succeed at a DC 12 Will save or become confused for 1 round.
Pride: A pride fleshdreg’s bite floods the senses of the creature it attacks. Any creature that takes damage from a pride fleshdreg’s bite attack must succeed at a DC 12 Will save or be blinded for 1 round and dazzled for the next 1d4 rounds.
Sloth: A sloth fleshdreg’s bite conjures an amber crust that covers the target and restricts the target’s movements. Any creature that takes damage from a sloth fleshdreg’s bite attack must succeed at a DC 12 Reflex save or take a –2 penalty on attack rolls and Reflex saves for 1d4 rounds.
Wrath: A wrath fleshdreg’s bite delivers energy damage to creatures it attacks. Any creature that takes damage from a wrath fleshdreg’s bite attack takes an additional 1d4 points of energy damage (fleshdreg’s choice).
Sin-Scent (Su) Fleshdregs have scent against creatures whose nature reflects the fleshdreg’s related sin. For example, a wrathful fleshdreg can scent creatures using rage effects. The GM should adjudicate what creatures a particular fleshdreg can scent.
