https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/plants/fungus-queen
Fungus Queen CR 9
XP 6,400
CE Medium plant (extraplanar)
Init +7; Senses darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision; Perception +18
DEFENSE
AC 23, touch 13, flat-footed 20 (+3 Dex, +10 natural)
hp 114 (12d8+60)
Fort +13, Ref +7, Will +7
DR 10/cold iron or good; Immune electricity, plant traits; Resist acid 10, cold 10; SR 20
OFFENSE
Speed 20 ft.
Melee 2 claws +14 (1d6+5), 4 tentacles +12 (1d4+2 plus grab)
Special Attacks compel plants, constrict (1d4+5), create spawn, energy drain (1 level, DC 23), sporepod
Spell-Like Abilities (CL 9th; concentration +16)
Constant–detect good, tongues
At will–veil (DC 23, self only)
3/day– charm monster (DC 21), detect thoughts (DC 19), suggestion (DC 19)
1/day–dominate person (DC 22), mind fog (DC 22), slow (DC 20)
STATISTICS
Str 21, Dex 17, Con 21, Int 18, Wis 16, Cha 24
Base Atk +9; CMB +14 (+18 grapple); CMD 27
Feats Combat Expertise, Combat Reflexes, Improved Initiative, Multiattack, Power Attack, Skill Focus (Disguise)
Skills Bluff +19, Disguise +25, Knowledge (dungeoneering) +10, Knowledge (planes) +10, Perception +18, Sense Motive +15, Use Magic Device +19
Languages Abyssal, Aklo, Common, Undercommon, one other; tongues, telepathy 100 ft.
SQ plant empathy +23
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Compel Plants (Su) A fungus queen’s mind-affecting powers and spell-like abilities (and spells, should the fungus queen gain the ability to cast them) affect plant creatures (but not mindless plant creatures) as if they weren’t immune to mind-affecting effects.
Create Spawn (Su) A creature that would normally be slain by a fungus queen’s energy drain attack is not killed–instead, it immediately loses all negative levels imparted by the fungus queen and transforms into a fungus-infested minion of the queen. Such creatures gain the fungoid simple template. Fungoid creatures are under the control of the fungus creature that created them, and remain enslaved until their mistress is destroyed or until they are cured of the infestation (see the facing page). A fungus queen can communicate telepathically with her fungoid spawn at any range as long as they are on the same plane, and may have a number of Hit Dice worth of enslaved spawn totaling no more than twice her own Hit Dice; any spawn she creates that would exceed this limit become free-willed fungoid creatures. A fungus queen may free an enslaved spawn in order to enslave a new spawn, but once freed, a fungoid creature cannot be enslaved again (although it can still be influenced by the fungus queen’s compel plants and plant empathy abilities).
Energy Drain (Su) A fungus queen’s energy drain functions identically to that of a succubus. Creatures killed by this attack do not die–they instead become infested with the fungus queen’s spores (see Create Spawn). The save DC is Charisma-based.
Plant Empathy (Ex) This ability functions as the druid’s wild empathy, save that a fungus queen can use this ability only on plant creatures. A fungus queen gains a +4 racial bonus on this check. Mindless plant creatures are imparted a modicum of implanted intelligence when a fungus queen uses this ability, allowing her to train such creatures as guardians.
Sporepod (Su) As a standard action, a fungus queen can cause a Medium pod of fungal material to burst out of the ground at any point within 60 feet of her current location. Once created, a sporepod cannot move. If the fungus queen travels more than 120 feet from a sporepod, it is destroyed. A fungus queen can maintain a number of sporepods equal to her Charisma modifier (7 for the typical fungus queen). As a move action, she can instantaneously travel to one of her sporepods as if using transport via plants. She can also choose to spread out her tentacle attacks among her sporepods, attacking a creature within 5 feet of any sporepod with a tentacle–she is still limited to making only four tentacle attacks as part of a full-attack action, or one as a standard action. A sporepod is an object that has an AC of 15 and 20 hit points; damage dealt to a sporepod does not harm the fungus queen.
