https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/undead/ghoul/ghoul-cinder-tohc
Cinder Ghoul CR 7
XP 3,200
CE Large undead (fire)
Init +9; Senses darkvision 60 ft.; Perception +8
DEFENSE
AC 21, touch 15, flat-footed 15 (+5 Dex, +1 dodge, +6 natural, –1 size)
hp 68 (8d8+32)
Fort +6; Ref +9; Will +7
Defensive Abilities limited gaseous form; DR 10/magic; Immune fire, undead traits
Weaknesses vulnerability to cold
OFFENSE
Speed fly 40 ft. (perfect)
Melee slam +10 (1d8+4 plus 1d6 fire plus burn plus energy drain)
Space 10 ft.; Reach 5 ft.
Special Attacks burn (1d8, DC 18), energy drain (1 level, DC 18), smoke inhalation
STATISTICS
Str 16, Dex 20, Con —, Int 4, Wis 12, Cha 19
Base Atk +6; CMB +10; CMD 26 (can’t be tripped)
Feats Dodge, Improved Initiative, Lightning Reflexes, Weapon Finesse
Skills Fly +18, Perception +8
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Limited Gaseous Form (Ex) Because it has solid body parts that constantly float and swirl within it, a cinder ghoul has a limited version of the gaseous form ability. Although other gaseous creatures can issue under the crack of a door, a cinder ghoul cannot. A cinder ghoul can, however, make slam attacks, retains its natural armor bonus, and all supernatural attacks. Spells, spell-like abilities, and supernatural abilities affect them normally. A cinder ghoul cannot enter water or other liquid. It is not ethereal or incorporeal, and is affected by winds or other forms of moving air to the extent that the wind pushes them in the direction the wind is moving. However, even the strongest wind can’t disperse or damage a cinder ghoul. Because it contains burning embers and small bits of perpetually smoldering flesh, a cinder ghoul cannot hide and gets no bonuses to Stealth checks in an area of mist, smoke, or other gas.
Smoke Inhalation (Su) As a standard action, a cinder ghoul can attempt to force some of its smoky form into the lungs of a living opponent. To initiate this attack it must move into its target’s space. The target must then make a successful DC 18 Fortitude save or inhale part of the creature. Smoke inside the victim’s lungs burns the surrounding tissues and organs, dealing 1d2 points of Constitution damage each round. The affected creature can attempt another Fortitude save each round to cough out the burning residue. The save DC is Charisma-based.
