https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/constructs/golem/golem-gelatinous-tohc
Gelatinous Golem CR 10
XP 9,600
N Large construct
Init +1; Senses darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision; Perception +19
DEFENSE
AC 24, touch 10, flat-footed 23 (+1 Dex, +14 natural, –1 size)
hp 114 (13d10+30 plus 13)
Fort +6; Ref +7; Will +6
DR 10/bludgeoning and magic; Immune construct traits, electricity, magic
OFFENSE
Speed 30 ft.
Melee 2 slams +19 (2d6+6 plus 2d6 acid and paralysis)
Space 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.
Special Attacks acid, engulf, paralysis (3d6 rounds, DC 16)
STATISTICS
Str 22, Dex 12, Con —, Int 3, Wis 11, Cha 1
Base Atk +8; CMB +15; CMD 26
Feats Great Fortitude, Iron Will, Lightning Reflexes, Power Attack, Skill Focus (Perception), Toughness, Weapon Focus (slam)
Skills Perception +19
SQ transparent
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Acid (Ex) A gelatinous golem’s acid does not harm metal or stone.
Engulf (Ex) A gelatinous golem can try to wrap an opponent up to one size smaller than itself in its body as a standard action. The gelatinous golem attempts a grapple that does not provoke an attack of opportunity. If it wins the grapple the gelatinous golem establishes a hold. Attacks that hit an engulfing gelatinous golem deal half their damage to the golem and half to the engulfed victim.
An engulfed opponent is subjected to the gelatinous golem’s paralysis and acid each round it remains trapped. A trapped opponent can do nothing other than attempt to escape. Further, an engulfed foe must hold its breath or begin drowning (see the Core Rulebook for the drowning rules).
While engulfing an opponent, a gelatinous golem is not considered grappled and can move and attack normally.
Immunity to Magic (Ex) A gelatinous golem is immune to any spell or spell-like ability that allows spell resistance. In addition, certain spells and effects function differently against the creature, as noted below.
A cone of cold spell slows it (as the slow spell) for 2d6 rounds, with no saving throw.
An acid fog spell heals all of its lost hit points.
Transparent (Ex) A gelatinous golem is hard to see, even under ideal conditions, and it takes a DC 15 Perception check to notice one. Creatures who fail to notice a gelatinous golem and walk into it are automatically grappled (if the golem chooses to grapple the opponent).
