https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/oozes/hungry-flesh
Hungry Flesh CR 3
XP 800
N Large ooze
Init –3; Senses blindsight 60 ft., scent; Perception –5
DEFENSE
AC 8, touch 6, flat-footed 8 (–3 Dex, +2 natural, –1 size)
hp 47 (5d8+25); regeneration 5 (acid or fire)
Fort +6, Ref –2, Will –4
Defensive Abilities amorphous; Immune ooze traits
OFFENSE
Speed 20 ft., swim 20 ft.
Melee slam +5 (1d6+4 plus disease and grab)
Space 10 ft.; Reach 5 ft.
Special Attacks constrict (1d6+4 plus disease)
STATISTICS
Str 16, Dex 5, Con 20, Int —, Wis 1, Cha 1
Base Atk +3; CMB +7 (+11 grapple); CMD 14 (can’t be tripped)
SQ compression, monstrous growth, reactive regeneration, slime trail
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Disease (Ex) Tumor Infestation: Injury; save Fort DC 17; onset 1 minute; frequency 1/day; effect 1d2 Con and 1d2 Cha; cure 2 consecutive saves. Anyone who dies from tumor infestation turns into a hungry flesh 1d4 hours later. The save DC is Constitution-based.
Monstrous Growth (Ex) A hungry flesh gains growth points from its reactive regeneration ability or from eating creatures. When it consumes a creature that’s been dead no more than an hour, it gains 1 growth point if that creature is of its size or one size category smaller, or 2 growth points if its meal is larger than it is. Eating a creature takes a full-round action if it is the same size or smaller than the hungry flesh or 1 minute if it is larger. Each time a hungry flesh reaches 5 growth points, it gains the giant creature simple template. This template stacks with itself each time the hungry flesh gains another 5 growth points, but the hungry flesh can’t increase its size beyond Gargantuan. When it stops gaining growth points, a hungry flesh loses a single application of the giant creature simple template for each hour that passes.
Reactive Regeneration (Ex) Whenever a hungry flesh takes piercing or slashing damage, it regenerates 5 hit points and gains 1 growth point.
Slime Trail (Ex) A hungry flesh leaves behind a trail of slime that acts as a grease spell (DC 17). Any living creature that touches this slime with bare flesh must succeed at a Fortitude save (with a +4 bonus) or contract tumor infestation. The slime dries up after 1 minute. The save DC is Constitution-based.
