https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/aberrations/incutilis-lord
Incutilis Lord CR 8
XP 4,800
NE Large aberration (aquatic)
Init +3; Senses all-around vision, darkvision 60 ft.; Perception +20
DEFENSE
AC 22, touch 12, flat-footed 19; (+3 Dex, +10 natural, –1 size)
hp 104 (11d8+55)
Fort +9, Ref +6, Will +12
Immune disease, mind-affecting effects, poison; Resist cold 10, electricity 10
OFFENSE
Speed 10 ft., climb 10 ft., jet 120 ft., swim 40 ft.
Melee 4 tentacles +14 (1d6+2 plus calcifying sting)
Space 10 ft.; Reach 15 ft.
STATISTICS
Str 20, Dex 17, Con 18, Int 15, Wis 16, Cha 15
Base Atk +8; CMB +14; CMD 27 (can’t be tripped)
Feats Alertness, Combat Reflexes, Great Fortitude, Iron Will, Toughness, Weapon Focus (tentacle)
Skills Climb +18, Intimidate +13, Knowledge (arcana) +6, Knowledge (local) +6, Knowledge (nature) +10, Perception +20, Sense Motive +12, Spellcraft +12, Stealth +11, Survival +11, Swim +21
Languages Aklo, Aquan, Common; telepathy (100 ft.)
SQ amphibious, black coral secretion, calcified minion
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Black Coral Secretion (Ex) An incutilis lord’s tentacles generate an oily black residue that quickly hardens into a dense, coral-like substance. A single application covers a 5 foot square and completely hardens in 1 minute, even when exposed to water. This substance is malleable until hardened, allowing an incutilis lord or the lord’s minions to shape it into armor, walls, and more. Once calcified, it has a hardness of 4 and 8 hit points per inch of thickness.
An incutilis lord can produce one application of black coral per Hit Die each day.
Calcified Minion (Su) A calcifying stinger imparts a strong psychic connection between a calcified target and the incutilis lord who implanted the stinger. Once the target succumbs to the incutilis lord’s will (see the calcifying sting ability, below), the target’s whole body is infused with new secretions that allow the incutilis lord to dictate the target’s actions and restore any Dexterity lost to the calcifying sting, as the secretions assist the minion’s movement rather than hindering it. The incutilis lord can control a number of minions equal to its Charisma modifier as a free action. If the incutilis lord attempts to control a new minion in excess of this limit, it must first release one of its current calcified minions; see the calcifying sting ability, below. The minions have no will of their own but retain a small portion of their identity, giving the incutilis lord access to their feats, physical skills, extraordinary abilities, spell-like abilities, and supernatural abilities. A calcified creature moves under the direct control of its incutilis lord until the stinger is removed from its body.
While under the incutilis lord’s control, a calcified minion takes its own normal actions each round, as directed by its controller. A minion can survive this process for a number of days equal to its Constitution score. After this time, the calcified minion dies, though its body retains a semblance of life. The dead minion is treated as a living creature and can be controlled in the same fashion as before until the calcifying stinger is removed or the incutilis lord that controls the creature dies.
Calcifying Sting (Su) The tentacles of an incutilis lord inject a painful stinger that constantly generates a black coral secretion. A creature stung by an incutilis lord must attempt a DC 19 Fortitude saving throw at the beginning of every turn until the stinger is removed. Each time it fails this save, the creature takes an additional 1d6 points of damage and 2 points of Dexterity drain. If this causes the creature to reach 0 or fewer hit points or a Dexterity score of 0, it loses all will of its own and immediately comes under the control of the incutilis lord (see the calcified minion ability, above).
As a swift action, the incutilis lord can psychically command one of its stingers to remove itself from a stung creature, releasing its control over that creature.
Another creature can forcefully remove a stinger from a willing or unconscious target by a succeeding at a DC 19 Heal check. Regardless of whether this Heal check succeeds or fails, attempting to remove the stinger deals 1d8 points of damage to the target. If the stinger is removed or the incutilis lord dies, the fluid seeps out of the controlled creature’s wounds and the creature is released from the incutilis lord’s control—though the creature may be dead by that time. The save DC is Constitution-based.
