https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/monstrous-humanoids/medusa/medusa-animus-shade
Medusa Animus Shade CR 9
XP 6,400
CE Medium undead (incorporeal)
Init +6; Senses darkvision 60 ft.; Perception +24; Aura mental static (30 ft., DC 16)
DEFENSE
AC 16, touch 16, flat-footed 14 (+4 deflection, +2 Dex)
hp 76 (8d10+32)
Fort +6, Ref +8, Will +7
Defensive Abilities all-around vision, channel resistance +4, incorporeal, mental schism; Immune undead traits
OFFENSE
Speed fly 30 ft. (perfect)
Melee incorporeal touch +10 (animus insinuation, DC 16)
Ranged rend psyche +10 touch (9d6 plus 1d6 Charisma damage, DC 18)
Special Attacks animus insinuation, corrupt intent, petrifying gaze, rend psyche
STATISTICS
Str —, Dex 15, Con —, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 19
Base Atk +8; CMB +8; CMD 20
Feats Improved Initiative, Point-Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Weapon Finesse
Skills Bluff +10, Disguise +15, Intimidate +23, Perception +24, Stealth +13; Racial Modifiers +8 Intimidate, +12 Perception
Languages Common
SPECIAL ABILITIES
All-Around Vision (Ex) A medusa’s snake-hair allows her to see in all directions. The medusa animus shade gains a +4 racial bonus on Perception checks and cannot be flanked.
Animus Insinuation (Sp) Whenever an animus shade touches a creature, it inspires that creature’s animus to rise up and overthrow the creature’s dominant personality. This effect functions as per id insinuation II if the animus shade’s CR is 7 or less or id insinuation IV if the animus shade’s CR is 8 or higher, except that either way, the effect only targets a single creature touched and the duration is 1 round per Hit Die of the animus shade, without the need for concentration.
Corrupt Intent (Su) An animus shade subverts the intent and willpower of its enemies, filling them with doubt and conflicting desires that play into the animus shade’s hands. Whenever a creature strikes the animus shade with a melee or ranged attack, it must succeed at a Will save or take a –1 penalty on all further attacks against the animus shade for 1d4 rounds.
Each subsequent failed save against this ability by a creature already under its effect increases the total penalty by 1 and extends the duration of the effect by 1 round.
Rend Psyche (Su) As a standard action, an animus shade unleashes a jet of dark energy at a creature within 30 feet. On a successful ranged touch attack, the target is wracked with mental agony as its own animus attempts to wrench free from its physical form. This violent struggle deals a number of d6s of damage equal to the animus shade’s CR, as well as 1d6 points of Charisma damage.
A successful Will save halves the damage and negates the Charisma damage. The save DC is Charisma-based.
Mental Schism (Su) An animus shade’s mind is a chaotic tangle of the shredded remnants of the dominant personality that once subsumed it. This mercurial state of being is too piecemeal for alignment-based effects to take hold. The animus shade is immune to all effects that are dependent on alignment.
Petrifying Gaze (Su) Turn to stone permanently, 30 feet, Fortitude DC 18 negates. The save DC is Charisma-based.
