https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/oozes/mezlan
Mezlan CR 14
XP 38,400
N Medium ooze (shapechanger)
Init +11; Senses blindsight 120 ft.; Perception +20
DEFENSE
AC 30, touch 18, flat-footed 22 (+7 Dex, +1 dodge, +12 natural)
hp 195 (17d8+119); regeneration 5 (acid)
Fort +12, Ref +14, Will +11
Immune ooze traits; SR 25
OFFENSE
Speed 40 ft., climb 20 ft., swim 20 ft.
Melee 2 morphic weapons +22 (2d8+10)
Ranged morphic weapon +19 (2d8+10)
Special Attacks sneak attack +3d6, store spells (chain lightning [DC 19], dispel magic, mage armor)
STATISTICS
Str 30, Dex 25, Con 24, Int 15, Wis 18, Cha 17
Base Atk +12; CMB +22; CMD 40
Feats Alertness, Dodge, Improved Initiative, Iron Will, Lightning Reflexes, Point-Blank Shot, Power Attack, Precise Shot, Stealthy
Skills Acrobatics +15, Bluff +14, Climb +18, Disguise +25, Escape Artist +9, Linguistics +11, Perception +20, Sense Motive +20, Stealth +25, Swim +18; Racial Modifiers +12 Disguise, +4 Linguistics, +4 Stealth
Languages Aklo, Common; versatile speech
SQ morphic body, no breath, skill pool
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Morphic Body (Su) As a standard action, a mezlan can assume the appearance of any Medium or Small creature (other than creatures with the elemental, incorporeal, or swarm subtype—the body assumed must be solid). This ability affects only the mezlan’s outward image. Its creature type doesn’t change in this new form; it gains none of the mimicked creature’s special abilities, and it retains all of its normal statistics and abilities as depicted above. This is a polymorph effect.
Morphic Weapons (Su) A mezlan can manipulate its body to mimic a wide array of potent weaponry wielded by its various forms. While the weapons may look different, they are considered natural weapons and they all do the same amount of damage. Morphic weapons deal bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage, and are treated as magic for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction. Once per round, a mezlan can extend one of its limbs to strike at a distance up to 15 feet away with one of its morphic weapons. A mezlan can also attack with a morphic weapon by hurling a portion of its body as a thrown weapon with a range increment of 60 feet (the mezlan swiftly regrows thrown portions of its body after using this attack, while the hurled portion melts away into slime after dealing damage to a target).
Skill Pool (Ex) A mezlan has a special knack for solving problems.
Five times per day, it can apply a +4 competence bonus to any skill check, even checks for skills it has no ranks in and skills that can only be used trained. A mezlan can use any skill, even those that would normally require it to be trained.
Store Spells (Su) A mezlan can store up to 10 levels of spells that it can then cast freely. The spells imbued into a mezlan are each activated with the same casting time as the original spell, and are cast at the caster level of the spellcaster who provided the spells. A mezlan can store and use arcane, divine, and psychic spells, and can carry spells from any number of casters at a given time. To fuel this ability, a caster must cast her spells into the mezlan as if storing a spell in an item like a ring of spell storing. The mezlan must be aware of the incoming spell, choose to lower its spell resistance, and ready an action to absorb it. Only spells that have the mezlan as a target can be absorbed in this way; area spells can’t be absorbed. If a mezlan already holds 10 levels of spells, it cannot absorb more spells, and any spell of a level exceeding a mezlan’s available spell level is not absorbed and affects the mezlan normally. Once a spell is absorbed in this manner, the mezlan can use the spell as its own.
Versatile Speech (Ex) A mezlan has a talent for parsing spoken languages. After spending 1 minute listening to a speaker use a language it doesn’t already know, a mezlan can understand that language. After listening for 1 additional minute, the mezlan can speak the language. This understanding lasts for 24 hours before fading from the mezlan’s mutable mind.
To understand the same language again after this time, the mezlan must spend another minute listening to a creature speak that language. The mezlan doesn’t have to be engaged in a conversation to use this ability.
