https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/plants/mold-mindslaver
Mindslaver Mold CR 3
XP 800
NE Small plant
Init +7; Senses low-light vision; Perception +8
DEFENSE
AC 15, touch 15, flat-footed 11 (+3 Dex, +1 dodge, +1 size)
hp 30 (4d8+12); fast healing 2
Fort +7, Ref +4, Will +2
Defensive Abilities avoidance; Immune cold, plant traits; Resist acid 10; SR 14
OFFENSE
Speed 5 ft., climb 5 ft.
Ranged spore pod +7 touch (spores)
Special Attacks infestation, spores
Spell-Like Abilities (CL 8th; concentration +9)
1/day—dominate person (DC 16)
STATISTICS
Str 2, Dex 17, Con 17, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 13
Base Atk +3; CMB –2; CMD 12 (can’t be tripped)
Feats Dodge, Improved Initiative
Skills Climb +8, Escape Artist +7, Perception +8, Stealth +14
Languages Aklo, Common, Sylvan (can’t speak any language); mold mindlink
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Avoidance (Ex) When a mindslaver mold is infesting a living or undead creature and would be hit by an attack, it can make a Reflex save as an immediate action. If the mold succeeds, the attack doesn’t harm it and instead harms the infested creature—the mold effectively slithers out of the way of the incoming attack so that the blow strikes the creature it controls. The mindslaver mold must choose to attempt avoidance after the attack roll is resolved but before damage is rolled.
Infestation (Su) A mindslaver mold can climb onto and attach itself to a willing or helpless host as a standard action. As long as the mold infests its host, the mold shares the same 5-foot square with its host’s space; this does not negatively impact the host or the mold. As long as a mindslaver mold infests a host, the host takes a –4 penalty on Will saves against the mindslaver mold’s dominate person spell-like ability, and the duration of that spell-like ability on the host becomes permanent as long as the mold remains attached. Each day, an attached mindslaver mold deals 1d4 points of damage to its host as it feeds on the host’s blood and other bodily fluids. A mindslaver mold can be torn free of a host with a successful DC 15 Strength check as a standard action—doing so deals 2d6 points of damage to the host as the mold’s tendrils tear free. A dead mindslaver mold deals no damage in this way.
Mold Mindlink (Su) A mindslaver mold can communicate telepathically with any other mindslaver mold within 10 miles, and knows the condition of all other mindslaver molds in this area as if it had a status spell in effect on all other molds.
Spore Pod (Ex) A mindslaver mold’s sole physical attack is to launch a spore pod the size of a sling bullet. This is a ranged touch attack that has a range increment of 20 feet.
Spores (Su) Whenever a mindslaver mold hits a creature with its spore pod, or whenever a creature touches a mindslaver mold (including when a creature hits the mold with a touch attack, unarmed strike, or natural attack), the creature must succeed at a DC 15 Fortitude save or take 1d4 points of Wisdom damage as the mold’s spores swiftly drain away the victim’s willpower and sense of self. The save DC is Constitution-based.
