https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/outsiders/oni/oni-void-yai
Void Yai CR 20
XP 307,200
LE Huge outsider (giant, native, oni, shapechanger)
Init +6; Senses darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision, true seeing; Perception +29
DEFENSE
AC 36, touch 9, flat-footed 35 (+9 armor, +1 Dex, +18 natural, -2 size)
hp 379 (23d10+253); regeneration 15 (fire or good spells)
Fort +24, Ref +9, Will +21
Immune cold; SR 31
OFFENSE
Speed 40 ft., fly 40 ft. (good); 60 ft., fly 60 ft. without armor
Melee mwk greatclub +39/+34/+29/+24 (3d8+25/19-20) or 2 slams +23 (2d6+25)
Ranged void missile +23 touch (6d6 plus energy drain)
Space 15 ft.; Reach 15 ft.
Special Attacks commanding voice, energy drain (2 levels, DC 28), void trap
Spell-Like Abilities (CL 20th; concentration +27)
Constant—fire shield (chill shield), fly, true seeing
At will—deeper darkness, gaseous form (self only), greater dispel magic, greater teleport (self plus 50 lbs. of objects only), invisibility (self only), minor creation, vision
3/day—cone of cold (DC 22), demand (DC 25), dominate person (DC 22), major creation, mass charm monster (DC 25), polar ray, teleport object (DC 24)
1/day—implosion (DC 26), plane shift (DC 24)
STATISTICS
Str 44, Dex 15, Con 32, Int 18, Wis 23, Cha 25
Base Atk +23; CMB +42; CMD 54
Feats Awesome Blow, Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Critical Focus, Improved Bull Rush, Improved Critical (greatclub), Improved Initiative, Improved Vital Strike, Iron Will, Power Attack, Staggering Critical, Weapon Finesse
Skills Acrobatics +17 (+25 when jumping), Bluff +30, Fly +20, Intimidate +30, Knowledge (arcana) +27, Knowledge (history) +24, Knowledge (nobility) +14, Knowledge (planes) +27, Perception +29, Sense Motive +29, Spellcraft +24, Use Magic Device +30
Languages Common, Giant
SQ change shape (Large, Huge, or Gargantuan humanoid; giant form II), void form
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Commanding Voice (Su) A void oni gains a +4 racial bonus on the save DC of any charm or compulsion effects it uses against humanoids.
Void Form (Su) A void yai may become incorporeal as a swift action. In this form, it appears as a solid black shadow of its true form. It gains the incorporeal subtype and incorporeal defensive ability while in void form. Any gear or armor the yai carries becomes incorporeal as well—it loses its AC bonus from armor and natural armor, but gains a deflection bonus to its AC equal to its Charisma modifier (+7 for most void yai, for an AC of 16). It may still speak while incorporeal and can still use its spell-like and special abilities.
Void Missile (Su) As a swift action, a void yai can launch a bolt of darkness from its third eye. Damage caused by this missile is negative energy damage. This attack has a range of 180 feet with no range increment.
Void Trap (Su) When a void oni uses any teleportation effect on itself (including its greater teleport and plane shift spell-like abilities, but not its teleport object spell-like ability), it can choose to arrive at its destination in void form as a free action. When it does so, it leaves behind a temporary lesser sphere of annihilation in a square of its choice that was part of its space before it teleported. This sphere of annihilation cannot be caused to move by other creatures, but the sphere itself moves at a fly speed of 30 feet (perfect) toward the closest Tiny or larger creature on the oni’s next turn. If no appropriate creature is within 30 feet, the sphere does not move that round. If the sphere enters a square occupied by a creature (or if a creature touches the sphere), that creature is affected as if by a disintegrate spell (CL 20th, DC 23). Once the sphere damages a creature with this effect, the sphere vanishes—it also vanishes on its own after 24 hours in the unlikely event that it never discharges on a creature. The save DC is Charisma-based. The concept of the void is a difficult one for many individuals to grasp, for it encompasses more than just an absence of anything. The concept of “void” as an element also represents the heavens above, the dark places between the stars, the nature of the spiritual world, and even the capacity to create and envision new ideas. The void yai represents all of these possibilities, interpreted in a way that exemplifies the evil of the oni race.
Voidlords
Between the considerable power of the typical void yai and the divine might of the oni daimyos exists a middling category of unique void yai. But to even use the term “middling” in this context is something of a folly, for these unique void yai, known collectively as the voidlords, are among the most powerful creatures to walk the Material Plane.
While void yai typically content themselves with ruling nations, voidlords arrive with a greater mission—to control entire worlds and bring all that dwell upon these worlds to their knees. Voidlords are always void yai with additional racial Hit Dice or class levels—levels of fighter, monk, and rogue are favorite choices for voidlords. These powerful outsiders generally eschew spellcasting classes under the opinion that might and the oni’s inborn supernatural abilities are a greater path to conquest than mortal magic. In addition to having the typical void yai abilities, each voidlord possesses an additional number of powers keyed to that voidlord’s particular area of focus. Two sample voidlord foci are listed below, but these represent only a tiny fraction of the total possible.
Voidlord of Martial Arts: A voidlord of martial arts always attacks with unarmed strikes—it is treated as a 20th-level monk with the flurry of blows ability for the purposes of determining its damage and number of attacks per round with its unarmed strikes. This voidlord gains Stunning Fist as a bonus feat, and gains the use of the following spell-like abilities three times per day: forceful hand, grasping hand, and greater shout.
Voidlord of Swordplay: A voidlord of sword fighting always carries a sword of some sort—typically a katana. These voidlords gain the ability to use the following spell-like abilities three times per day: blade barrier, keen edge, and mage’s sword. They are automatically proficient in the use of swords, and any sword they wield is treated as a +5 weapon, in addition to any other magical qualities the weapon might have. A voidlord of swordplay can also permanently transform any magic weapon (save for artifacts) into a sword of any size or type by touch.
