https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/constructs/orcish-warclops
Orcish Warclops CR 6
XP 2,400
N Large construct
Init –2; Senses darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision; Perception +0
DEFENSE
AC 19, touch 7, flat-footed 19 (+4 armor, –2 Dex, +8 natural, –1 size)
hp 74 (8d10+30)
Fort +2, Ref +0, Will +2
DR 5/adamantine; Immune construct traits, magic
Weakness poorly made
OFFENSE
Speed 40 ft.
Melee 3 slam +11 (2d6+4)
Space 10 ft.; Reach 10 ft.
Special Attacks destructive frenzy
STATISTICS
Str 18, Dex 7, Con —, Int —, Wis 11, Cha 1
Base Atk +8; CMB +13; CMD 21 (23 vs. trip)
Languages none
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Destructive Frenzy (Ex) If a orcish warclops takes damage, on its next turn it can take a free move action before making a full attack action. Doing so, however, causes the construct to take 2d6 points of damage. This damage bypasses the orcish warclops’ damage reduction.
Immunity to Magic (Ex) An orcish warclops is immune to any spell or spell-like ability that allows spell resistance. In addition, certain spells and effects function differently agains the creature as noted below.
An orcish warclops is made of flesh that is still partially alive. It can be affected by cure and inflict spells, as well as both positive and negative channeled energy. Casting rage on an orcish warclops allows it to use its destructive frenzy ability each round without taking damage, even if it did not take any damage before its turn. Spells that cause blindness work normally on an orcish warclops, and it takes a -2 penalty on all such saving throws. Such effects immediately end if the orcish warclops takes damage and uses it destructive frenzy ability, even if the effect was permanent. Poorly Made (Ex) An orcish warclops is not particularly well constructed. If an orcish warclops takes a critical hit, one of its arms or legs is severed. If it loses a leg, its speed is reduced to 30 feet and its CMD versus trip attempts is reduced to 21. If it loses an arm, it is reduced to 2 slam attacks each round. If it takes a second critical hit, it loses the other appendage. If it takes a third critical hit, it is destroyed.
