https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/undead/poltergeist-TOHC
Poltergeist CR 2
XP 600
LE Medium undead (incorporeal)
Init +1; Senses darkvision 60 ft.; Perception +9; Aura unnatural aura 30 ft.
DEFENSE
AC 13, touch 13, flat-footed 12 (+2 deflection, +1 Dex)
hp 19 (3d8+6)
Fort +3, Ref +2, Will +4
Defensive Abilities incorporeal, natural invisibility, rejuvenation; Immune undead traits
OFFENSE
Speed 10 ft., fly 20 ft. (good)
Melee telekinesis (see below)
Ranged telekinesis (see below)
Special Attacks fear, telekinesis
TACTICS
Poltergeists cannot manifest on the Material Plane and attack by picking up objects and hurling them at opponents.
STATISTICS
Str —, Dex 13, Con —, Int 5, Wis 12, Cha 15
Base Atk +2; CMB +2; CMD 15
Feats Ability Focus (fear), Skill Focus (Perception)
Skills Fly +5, Perception +9e
Languages Any one (see below)
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Fear (Su) A creature hit by a thrown object (see telekinesis below) must succeed on a DC 15 Will save or flee in terror for 2d6 rounds. A creature that successfully saves is immune to the fear effect of the same poltergeist for 24 hours. The save DC is Charisma-based.
Natural Invisibility (Su) This ability is constant, allowing a poltergeist to remain invisible even when attacking. This ability is inherent, cannot be dispelled or negated, and is not subject to the invisibility purge spell.
Rejuvenation (Su) Like ghosts, it’s difficult to destroy a poltergeist through simple combat: the “destroyed” spirit restores itself in 2d4 days. Unlike ghosts, powerful spells such as dispel evil usually are effective. Short of that, however, the only way to permanently destroy a poltergeist is to determine the reason for its existence and set right whatever prevents it from resting in peace. The exact means varies with each spirit and may require a good deal of research, and should be created specifically for each different poltergeist or group of poltergeists by the GM.
Telekinesis (Su) A poltergeist can create a telekinetic effect to hurl one object or creature within 10 feet to a distance of 60 feet (no range increment). This ability functions as the violent thrust version of the telekinesis spell (caster level 10th) with the following exceptions: the poltergeist can hurl only one object or creature per round; the poltergeist uses its Charisma modifier (usually +2) to modify its base attack bonus. A creature targeted by this ability can make a DC 13 Will save to avoid being hurled by the poltergeist. The save DC is Charisma-based.
Unnatural Aura (Su) Both wild and domesticated animals can sense the unnatural presence of a poltergeist at a distance of 30 feet. They will not willingly approach nearer than that and panick if forced to do so; they remain panicked as long as they are within that range.
