https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/undead/poltergeist
Poltergeist CR 2
XP 600
LE Medium undead (incorporeal)
Init +1; Senses darkvision 60 ft.; Perception +9
DEFENSE
AC 12, touch 12, flat-footed 11 (+1 deflection, +1 Dex)
hp 16 (3d8+3)
Fort +2, Ref +2, Will +4
Defensive Abilities incorporeal, natural invisibility, rejuvenation; Immune undead traits
OFFENSE
Speed fly 20 ft. (perfect)
Special Attacks frightener, telekinesis
STATISTICS
Str —, Dex 13, Con —, Int 5, Wis 12, Cha 12
Base Atk +2; CMB 3; CMD 14
Feats Ability Focus (fear)*, Alertness
Skills Fly +9, Perception +9, Sense Motive +3
Languages Common
SQ site bound
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Frightener (Su) Once per minute as a standard action, a poltergeist can temporarily drop its natural invisibility, revealing itself to be a skeletal, ghost-like humanoid. All Creatures within 30 feet when a poltergeist uses this ability must make a DC 14 Will save to avoid becoming frightened for 1d4 rounds. The poltergeist then resumes its invisibility at the end of its turn as a free action. A creature that successfully saves is immune to the fear effect of that poltergeist for 24 hours. If the poltergeist’s natural invisibility is negated via other methods, it cannot use this ability. Likewise, those that can see invisible creatures are immune to this special attack. This is a mind-affecting fear effect. The save DC is Charisma-based.
Rejuvenation (Su) When a poltergeist is destroyed, it only remains destroyed for 2d4 days. After this time, the undead spirit reforms where it was destroyed, fully healed. The only way to permanently destroy a poltergeist is to determine the reason for its existence and set right whatever prevents it from resting in peace. The exact means varies with each spirit and may require a good deal of research, and should be created specifically for each different poltergeist or group of poltergeists by the GM.
Site Bound (Ex) A poltergeist cannot travel more than 120 feet from the point at which it was created or formed.
Telekinesis (Su) A poltergeist has no method of attacking apart from telekinesis. This ability functions as the spell telekinesis, with a CL equal to the poltergeist’s Hit Dice (CL 3rd for most poltergeists). A typical poltergeist has a ranged attack roll of +3 when using telekinesis to hurl objects or creatures, and can use the ability on objects or creatures of up to 75 pounds. If a poltergeist attempts to hurl a creature with this ability, that creature can resist the effect with a successful DC 12 Will save. The save DC is Charisma-based.
