https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/outsiders/psychopomp/psychopomp-viduus
Viduus Psychopomp CR 4
XP 1,200
N Medium outsider (extraplanar, psychopomp)
Init +4; Senses darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision, spiritsense; Perception +14
DEFENSE
AC 16, touch 10, flat-footed 16 (+6 natural)
hp 47 (5d10+20)
Fort +5, Ref +4, Will +10
DR 5/adamantine; Immune death effects, disease, mind-affecting effects, poison; Resist cold 10, electricity 10; SR 15
OFFENSE
Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft.
Melee quill +5 touch (1d4 plus censor or expurgate)
Special Attacks censor, expurgate, quill
STATISTICS
Str 10, Dex 11, Con 18, Int 15, Wis 19, Cha 16
Base Atk +5; CMB +5; CMD 15
Feats Alertness, Improved Initiative, Iron Will
Skills Bluff +11, Climb +8, Diplomacy +11, Knowledge (history, planes, religion) +10, Perception +14, Sense Motive +14, Stealth +8
Languages Abyssal, Celestial, Common, Infernal
SQ spirit touch, transformation
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Censor (Su) A viduus that strikes a living creature with its quill rewrites memories. The target must succeed at a DC 15 Will save or its memories are affected similarly to modify memory. The viduus can rewrite 1 day’s worth of the target’s memories with a single strike. The target is confused for the next 1d4 rounds. A creature’s memories can be restored by lesser restoration, modify memory, or similar spells. Memories lost in this manner are copied into one of the numerous tomes protected by the viduus and can be relearned by reading that tome. This is a mind-affecting effect. The save DC is Charisma-based.
Expurgate (Su) A viduus that strikes an undead creature with its quill can obliterate that creature’s memories and rob it of its will to act. The undead creature must succeed at a DC 15 Will save or have all of its memories erased. This renders the undead immobile, as if under the effects of halt undead. An intelligent undead can attempt a saving throw at the end of each of its turns to end the effect, but unintelligent undead remain halted until the effect is removed by an outside force.
The effect is broken if the halted creature is attacked or takes damage. The save DC is Charisma-based.
Quill (Su) A viduus’s quill deals piercing damage and is treated as a light weapon and a touch attack. It cannot be used by other creatures as anything other than a standard writing quill.
Transformation (Su) A viduus that is reduced to 0 hit points transforms. Its cocoon body bursts open, expelling a swarm of biting black-and-white centipedes (same statistics as a spider swarm) and a bank of mind fog (CL 4th) centered on the viduus’s square. A viduus can purposefully transform by spending 3 consecutive full-round actions, in which case it reforms somewhere in Purgatory 1 month later.
