https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/constructs/robot/robot-scrapyard
Scrapyard Robot CR 3
XP 800
N Medium construct (robot)
Init –1; Senses darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision; Perception +5
DEFENSE
AC 14, touch 9, flat-footed 14 (–1 Dex, +5 natural)
hp 42 (4d10+20)
Fort +1, Ref +0, Will +1
Defensive Abilities hardness 5; Immune construct traits
Weaknesses fall to pieces, vulnerable to critical hits, vulnerable to electricity
OFFENSE
Speed 30 ft.
Melee slam +7 (1d4+4) or rotary saw +8 (2d4+4/×3)
STATISTICS
Str 17, Dex 8, Con —, Int 5, Wis 10, Cha 1
Base Atk +4; CMB +7; CMD 16 (20 vs. trip)
Feats Power Attack, Weapon Focus (rotary saw)
Skills Knowledge (engineering) +2, Perception +5
Languages Common, +1 additional
SQ repair, staggered
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Fall to Pieces (Ex) Attacks and effects that deal more than 25% of a scrapyard robot’s maximum hit points in damage (10 hit points for a standard scrapyard robot) impair one of the robot’s components. Determine which subsystem randomly by rolling 1d6. If the subsystem has already been impaired, there is no further effect.
CPU: The robot is confused
Fractured Plating: Reduce the robot’s natural armor bonus by 3. Power Core: Attacks against the robot with natural weapons, unarmed strikes, or metal weapons deal 1d6 points of electricity damage to the attacker, and the robot’s slam attack deals an additional 1d6 points of electricity damage. The robot shuts down from power loss in 1d4+1 rounds. Rotary Saw: The robot loses its rotary saw attack. Servos: The robot’s speed is reduced to 15 feet and its CMD against trip combat maneuvers is reduced by 8. Sensors: The robot is blinded. Repair (Ex) A scrapyard robot can use the inactive bodies of other robots to repair damage to itself. Doing so restores 10 hit points and removes one condition imparted by its fall to pieces ability per 8-hour period of uninterrupted work.
Eight hours of repair expends all salvageable parts from 1 Medium robot. For each size category a scrapped robot is above Medium, the scrapyard robot can perform another 8 hours of repairs using that robot’s parts.
For each size category smaller than Medium scrapped robots are, the scrapyard robot requires twice as many robots to complete 8 hours of work.
Staggered (Ex) The poor construction of a scrapyard robot allows it to take only a single move or standard action each round. In effect, it always has the staggered condition. A scrapyard robot can move up to its speed and attack in the same round as a charge action.
