https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/aberrations/roper/roper-stone
Stone Roper CR 6
XP 2,400
CE Medium aberration
Init +6; Senses darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision, tremorsense 200 ft.; Perception +12
DEFENSE
AC 22, touch 12, flat-footed 20 (+2 Dex, +10 natural)
hp 39 (6d8+12)
Fort +4, Ref +4, Will +8
Defensive Abilities stony hide
OFFENSE
Speed 10 ft.
Melee bite +7 (1d8+4)
Ranged 6 strands +7 touch (1d4 Strength)
Space 5 ft.; Reach 5 ft. (50 ft. with strand)
Special Attacks pull (strand, 5 feet), strands, venom pulse
TACTICS
Most encounters with a stone roper begin when it fires its strong, sticky strands. A stone roper attacks anything that comes within 50 feet by suddenly shooting out its tentacle strands. It prefers to attack two victims at once, each with three strands. The first two victims struck are affected with its venom pulse. If this succeeds, they are immediately released before they can be affected by the stone roper’s Strength damage weakening effect. If the venom fails, the stone roper continues to hold the creatures and the weakness takes effect on the creatures’ turn.
STATISTICS
Str 17, Dex 15, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 12
Base Atk +4; CMB +7; CMD 19 (can’t be tripped)
Feats Improved Initiative, Point-Blank Shot, Weapon Focus (strand)
Skills Climb +12, Knowledge (dungeoneering) +10, Perception +12, Stealth +11 (+19 in stony or icy areas), Survival +12; Racial Modifiers +8 Stealth in stony or icy areas
Languages Terran, Undercommon
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Stony Hide (Ex) A stone roper’s tough hide renders it immune to damage from nonmagical ranged attacks, save those of unusually large size (such as boulders hurled by a giant).
Strands (Ex) Most encounters with a stone roper begin when it fires up to six strong, sticky strands up to 50 feet away (no range increment). A roper’s attacks with its strands are treated as ranged touch attacks. Strands can be severed by any amount of slashing damage (a strand is AC 20). Once a strand has successfully struck a victim, it remains attached until severed or retracted by the stone roper (which it may do as a free action). Attached strands do no further Strength damage, but the struck individual is subject to the pull effect each round, and is subject to the stone roper’s venom pulse ability. A creature that begins its turn attached to a strand is numbed and weakened by the strange material, and for each strand attached must make a DC 15 Fortitude save or take 1d4 points of Strength damage. The save DC is Constitution-based, and poison resistances and immunities apply.
Venom Pulse (Ex) Twice per day, a stone roper can exude a pulse of venom through all of its attached strands as a free action. A creature attached to a strand must succeed on a DC 15 Fortitude save or be paralyzed (multiple attached strands to not require multiple saves or increase the save DC). A paralyzed creature appears to have been turned to stone (DC 20 Spot check or close inspection reveals that this is in fact not the case). One round after being paralyzed, the victim recovers and must succeed on a DC 15 Will save or act as if under the effects of a charm monster spell for 2d4 minutes. A charmed creature fights for and defends the stone roper. If the stone roper is killed, a charmed victim acts as if under the effects of a confusion spell for 1d6+2 rounds. The save DCs are Constitution-based, and poison resistances and immunities apply.




