https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/magical-beasts/siren
Siren CR 5
XP 1,600
CN Medium magical beast
Init +3; Senses darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision; Perception +15
DEFENSE
AC 18, touch 14, flat-footed 14 (+3 Dex, +1 dodge, +4 natural)
hp 52 (8d10+8)
Fort +7, Ref +11, Will +6
Immune mind-affecting effects
OFFENSE
Speed 30 ft., fly 60 ft. (good)
Melee 2 talons +11 (1d6)
Special Attacks bardic performance, siren’s song, sneak attack +2d6
Spell-Like Abilities (CL 7th; concentration +12)
3/day—cause fear (DC 16), charm person (DC 16), deep slumber (DC 18), shout (DC 19)
STATISTICS
Str 10, Dex 17, Con 12, Int 14, Wis 19, Cha 21
Base Atk +8; CMB +8; CMD 22
Feats Dodge, Flyby Attack, Lightning Reflexes, Weapon Finesse
Skills Fly +7, Knowledge (history) +10, Perception +15, Perform (sing) +13, Stealth +14
Languages Auran, Common
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Bardic Performance (Su) A siren may use bardic performance as a 4th-level bard (9 rounds/day), and can use countersong, distraction, fascinate, inspire competence, and inspire courage. Levels in the bard class stack with this ability.
Siren Song (Su) When a siren sings, all non-sirens within a 300-foot spread must succeed on a DC 19 Will save or become enthralled (see below). The effect depends on the type of song the siren chooses, and continues for as long as the siren sings and for 1 round thereafter. A creature that successfully saves cannot be affected again by any of that siren’s songs for 1 hour. These are sonic, mind-affecting effects. The save DC is Charisma-based. Enthralled creatures behave in one of the following four ways, which the siren chooses when she begins singing.
Captivation: A siren’s song has the power to infect the minds of those that hear it, calling them to the siren’s side. When a siren sings, all creatures aside from other harpies within a 300-foot spread must succeed on a DC 16 Will saving throw or become captivated. A creature that successfully saves is not subject to the same harpy’s song for 24 hours. A victim under the effects of the captivating song moves toward the siren using the most direct means available. If the path leads them into a dangerous area such as through fire or off a cliff, that creature receives a second saving throw to end the effect before moving into peril. Captivated creatures can take no actions other than to defend themselves. A victim within 5 feet of the harpy simply stands and offers no resistance to the harpy’s attacks. This effect continues for as long as the siren sings and for 1 round thereafter. This is a sonic mind-affecting charm effect. The save DC is Charisma-based. Fascination: Affected creatures are fascinated. Obsession: An obsessed victim becomes defensive of the siren and does all he can to prevent harm from coming to her, going so far as attacking his allies in her defense. The victim is not controlled by the siren, but views her as a cherished ally. This is a charm effect. Slumber: The victim immediately falls asleep, rendering the creature helpless. While the siren is singing, no noise will wake the sleeping creature, though slapping or wounding him does. The creature continues sleeping for 1d4 minutes after the siren stops singing, but can be awakened by loud noises or any other normal method.
