https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/oozes/slithering-tracker-tohc
Slithering Tracker CR 3
XP 800
N Small ooze
Init +4; Senses blindsight 60 ft.; Perception +8
DEFENSE
AC 15, touch 11, flat-footed 14 (+4 natural, +1 size)
hp 47 (5d8+25)
Fort +6, Ref +1, Will +1
Defensive Abilities sealed mind, transparent; Immune ooze traits
OFFENSE
Speed 10 ft., climb 10 ft.
Melee slam +6 (1d4+3 plus paralysis)
Special Attacks engulf (paralysis and plasma drain), paralysis (1d4 hours, DC 17, also when struck by unarmed attacks or natural weapons), plasma drain
STATISTICS
Str 14, Dex 10, Con 21, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 1
Base Atk +3; CMB +4; CMD 14 (can’t be tripped)
Feats Improved Initiative, Skill Focus (Perception), Skill Focus (Stealth)
Skills Climb +10, Perception +8, Stealth +16; Racial Modifiers +4 Stealth
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Engulf (Ex) A slithering tracker can engulf a paralyzed foe up to one size larger than itself as a standard action. It cannot make a slam attack during a round in which it engulfs. The slithering tracker merely has to move into a space occupied by a paralyzed creature, completely covering it.
An engulfed opponent is subjected to the slithering tracker’s paralysis and plasma drain, and is considered to be grappled and trapped within its body.
A slithering tracker only uses this ability against a paralyzed, sleeping, or otherwise helpless opponent.
Plasma Drain (Ex) A slithering tracker drains the body fluids from an engulfed opponent. Each 5 minutes an opponent is engulfed, it takes 1 point of Constitution damage. Because it takes a long time to completely drain a foe, a slithering tracker generally only uses this ability against a paralyzed, stunned, held, or sleeping opponent.
Sealed Mind (Ex) Even though a slithering tracker has an Intelligence score, it is immune to all mind-affecting effects (charms, compulsions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects) just as other oozes are.
Transparent (Ex) A slithering tracker is hard to identify, even under ideal conditions, and it takes a DC 15 Perception check to notice one. Creatures who fail to notice a slithering tracker and walk into it are automatically hit with a slam attack and subjected to the creature’s paralysis attack.
