https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/outsiders/stone-maiden-tohc
Stone Maiden CR 8
XP 4,800
N Medium outsider (earth, elemental, extraplanar)
Init +4; Senses darkvision 60 ft.; Perception +16
DEFENSE
AC 20, touch 10, flat-footed 20 (+10 natural)
hp 95 (10d10+40)
Fort +11, Ref +5, Will +12
Defensive Abilities one with the earth; DR 10/magic;
Immune earth magic, elemental traits
Weaknesses veil
OFFENSE
Speed 30 ft., burrow 30 ft.
Melee longsword +16/+11 (1d8+5) or 2 slams +15 (1d8+5)
Special Attacks earth mastery
Spell-like Abilities (CL 10th):
At will—magic stone, meld into stone, soften earth and stone, spike stones (DC 19), stone shape, stone tell, transmute mud to rock, transmute rock to mud
3/day—move earth
1/day—iron body, wall of stone (DC 20)
TACTICS
Before Combat A stone maiden is reluctant to enter combat unless pressed. Once engaged, a stone maiden defends itself with its longsword (or slam attack if unarmed) and an array of spell-like abilities.
During Combat A stone maiden usually opens combat by animating a section of nearby rock and directing the animated rocks to attack her nearest opponents. Next, she uses spike stones to turn the ground between herself and her foes into a field of razor-sharp points (and remember, because of her immunity to earth magic, a stone maiden can move through a spike stoned area unimpeded and without taking damage). Creatures making their way through the spike stoned area are usually met with a wall of stone or a hail of magic stones.
Morale If combat goes against a stone maiden she uses meld into stone to escape.
STATISTICS
Str 20, Dex 10, Con 18, Int 15, Wis 16, Cha 20
Base Atk +10; CMB +15; CMD 25
Feats Improved Initiative, Iron Will, Lightning Reflexes, Power Attack, Weapon Focus (longsword)
Skills Craft (stonemasonry) +15, Diplomacy +18, Knowledge (dungeoneering) +15, Knowledge (planes) +15, Knowledge (nature) +15, Perception +16, Sense Motive +16, Survival +16
Languages Common, Sylvan, Terran
Gear longsword
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Animate Rocks (Su) A stone maiden can animate rocks within 180 feet at will, controlling up to two rocks at a time. Animated rocks are vaguely humanoid-shaped (most often resembling a stone maiden) and use the same statistics as stone maidens. They do not possess a stone maiden’s animate rocks ability, spell-like abilities, or veil special quality. They can move through a spike stoned area unimpeded and without taking damage.
An animated rock loses its ability to move if the stone maiden that animated it is incapacitated or moves out of range.
Earth Mastery (Ex) A stone maiden gains a +1 bonus on attack and damage rolls if both it and its foe are touching the ground. If an opponent is airborne or waterborne, the stone maiden takes a -4 penalty on attack and damage rolls. (These modifiers are not included in the statistics block.)
Immunity to Earth Magic (Ex) A stone maiden is immune to all spells, spell-like abilities, and supernatural effects with the earth descriptor, including spells of the Earth domain.
One with the Earth (Ex) A stone maiden is so closely tied with the earth that any damage it takes from the natural attacks of an earth or stone creature (one formed of earth or stone or one with the earth subtype) is considered nonlethal damage.
Veil (Su) Each stone maiden is mystically bound to her veil and never lets it out of her possession. If she is ever more than 1,000 feet from it, she weakens (-4 effective penalty to Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution) and dies within 4d6 hours, crumbling to dust. If her veil is ever destroyed (hardness 3, hp 10) she dies within 1 minute. A stone maiden’s veil does not radiate magic.
