https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/aberrations/t-shann
T’Shann CR 2
XP 600
N Small aberration
Init -3; Senses darkvision 60 ft.; Perception +8; Aura alien thoughts (30 ft. DC 13)
DEFENSE
AC 11, touch 8, flat-footed 11 (-3 Dex, +3 natural, +1 size)
hp 22 (4d8+4)
Fort +2, Ref +0, Will +4
OFFENSE
Speed 5 ft.; burrow 5 ft.
Melee slam +4 (1d4)
Special Attacks spew
TACTICS
The most unusual aspect of a t’shann is its ability to cause confusion by its mere presence. The simple but alien brain of a t’shann emits waves in such a frequency that more advanced creatures suffer from severe disorientation if they come too close. T’shanns rarely attack. They are content to burrow through rock and dirt, blissfully unaware of the rest of the world. If attacked, however, a t’shann defends itself with all the natural weapons available to it.
STATISTICS
Str 10, Dex 4, Con 13, Int 2, Wis 10, Cha 12
Base Atk +3; CMB +2; CMD 9 (can’t be tripped)
Feats Lightning Reflexes, Skill Focus (Perception)
Skills Perception +8, Stealth +6
SQ burrow
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Alien Thoughts (Su) The alien brainwaves of a t’shann have a bizarre effect on intelligent creatures. Within 30 feet of a t’shann, all opponents with an Intelligence score greater than 5 must succeed on a DC 13 Will save or be affected as if by a confusion spell (caster level equal to the t’shann’s HD). If the opponent approaches to within 10 feet he must succeed on another DC 13 Will save or take 1d4 points of Intelligence damage for as long as he remains within 10 feet of the t’shann. Once the opponent moves more than 10 feet from this effect, his Intelligence score immediately returns to normal, although any confusion effects remain until he moves more than 30 feet away. Psionic monsters and creatures, being attuned to the brainwaves of others, suffer these effects at double the normal range. The save DCs are Charisma-based.
Burrow (Ex) A t’shann rarely appears in the open air, preferring the closeness and coolness of being deep in the earth. In order to attack a t’shann physically, an opponent must first find it and lure it out of its burrow. Finding a t’shann burrow requires a successful DC 15 Perception check. Once the burrow is located, the t’shann can be lured out by placing small pile of gems at the entrance. The t’shann must succeed on a DC 10 Will save or shuffle out of its lair to consume the treats.
Spew (Ex) If attacked, a t’shann emits a spray of powerful acids from nearly every pore on its body, affecting any creature within 10 feet of it. This acidic spray deals 1d4 points of acid damage, plus 1 point of damage per round for 1d4 rounds. A DC 13 Reflex save reduces the acid damage by half. The save DC is Constitution based.
