https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/magical-beasts/tavi-mongoose-folk
Tavi (Mongoose Folk) CR 1
XP 400
N Small magical beast
Init +8; Senses darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision, scent, serpent sense; Perception +5
DEFENSE
AC 17, touch 16, flat-footed 12 (+4 Dex, +1 dodge, +1 natural, +1 size)
hp 11 (2d10)
Fort +3 (+7 vs. reptilian poisons), Ref +9, Will +1 (+3 vs. reptilian)
OFFENSE
Speed 30 ft., climb 20 ft.
Melee bite +7 (1d4)
Ranged sling stone +5 (1)
Special Attacks attach
TACTICS
Tavi are not very strong, but they are incredibly fast. When a threat appears, a tavi will be at the throat of the enemy before he has time to blink. Tavi are aggressive hunters, but they are clever and make strong use of pack tactics. They have an excellent instinctive ability to coordinate attacks. Against powerful foes, tavi will attempt to flank, feint, and use aid another to ensure that the pack is able to bring down the foe. When fighting groups, tavi tend to single out one foe at a time, but they may suddenly switch targets at any moment using speed to keep their enemies off-guard.
Tavi rarely use any sorts of weapons or armor. Tavi who acquire character class levels are remarkable individuals, and will generally become one of the alphas of the group. These prodigies usually acquire rogue, barbarian, or ranger levels. To date, no tavi has ever displayed an aptitude for arcane or divine magic.
STATISTICS
Str 10, Dex 18, Con 11, Int 6, Wis 12, Cha 8
Base Atk +2; CMB +1 (+9 grapple); CMD 15
Feats Combat Reflexes, DodgeB, Improved InitiativeB, Lightning ReflexesB, Weapon FinesseB
Skills Acrobatics +12, Bluff +3 (+7 feint), Climb +12, Diplomacy -1 (-6 vs. serpents), Escape Artist +12, Perception +5, Stealth +8, Survival +1; Racial Modifiers +8 Acrobatics, +4 Bluff (to checks made to feint in combat), +8 Climb, -5 Diplomacy (vs. serpents), +8 Escape Artist, +4 Stealth.
Languages Tavi
SQ group hunter, ophidian malice
Gear sling, 20 sling stones
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Attach (Ex) When a tavi hits with a bite attack, it automatically grapples its foe, inflicting automatic bite damage (1d4) each round.
Group Hunter (Ex) Tavi work together incredibly well when hunting. Communicating silently using subtle body language, they are extremely effective at tracking and uncovering their prey. A tavi gains a +1 circumstance bonus to Perception and Survival checks for each other tavi within 30 ft. of itself (maximum +5).
Ophidian Malice (Ex) Tavi have been mystically bred to hunt and destroy serpents and serpent people. These deep-rooted instincts provide a tavi with the following advantages and disadvantages whenever they are dealing with creatures with the reptilian subtype:
+2 racial bonus to Perception and Survival checks, attack and damage rolls, and Will saves vs. effects generated by such creatures +4 racial bonus to saving throws against the natural poisons of such creatures, and to Bluff checks made to feint in combat; -5 penalty to any other Bluff check against such creatures -5 racial penalty on Diplomacy checks against such creatures Serpent Sense (Su) Serpent people are renowned for their shapeshifting powers, and the wizards who bred the tavi gave their hunters a mystical sense to compensate for this. A tavi automatically attempts a DC 10 Perception check whenever it comes within 30 ft. of any creature with the reptilian subtype (even if the creature is using a physical or magical disguise including invisibility).
If the check fails, the tavi detects nothing out of the ordinary. If the check is successful, the tavi detects the presence of a serpent within 30 ft. but is unable to pinpoint its location. If the result of the Perception check is greater than 15, the tavi immediately detects the creature and pinpoints its location. Any creature the tavi cannot see (does not have line of sight to) still has total concealment against the tavi and the tavi suffers normal miss chances when attacking such foes.
