https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/aberrations/thought-eater/
Thought Eater CR 2
XP 600
N Tiny aberration (extraplanar)
Init +8; Senses darkvision 60 ft.; Perception +8
DEFENSE
AC 16, touch 16, flat-footed 12 (+4 Dex, +2 size)
hp 18 (4d8)
Fort +1, Ref +5, Will +5
Defensive Abilities ethereal body
OFFENSE
Speed 10 ft., fly 30 ft. (perfect)
Melee bite +9 (1d3–3 plus eat thoughts)
Space 2-1/2 ft.; Reach 0 ft.
Psychic Magic (CL 4th; concentration +6)
5 PE—identify (1 PE), daze monster (2 PE, DC 14), detect thoughts (2 PE, DC 14), resist energy (2 PE)
STATISTICS
Str 4, Dex 19, Con 10, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha 15
Base Atk +3; CMB +5; CMD 12
Feats Improved Initiative, Weapon Finesse
Skills Fly +16, Perception +8, Stealth +19
Languages Aklo (can’t speak); telepathy 30 ft.
SQ ethereal passage
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Eat Thoughts (Su) A living and corporeal creature that takes damage from a thought eater’s bite loses some of its thoughts, as the thought eater drains them to nourish itself. If the victim is a spellcaster, she loses a single spell prepared, or a single unused spell slot (if she is a spontaneous spellcaster) of 1st level or higher. A spellcaster chooses which spell or spell slot she loses from this ability.
If the victim is not a spellcaster or has no prepared spells or unused spell slots of 1st-level or higher, on a failed saving throw this ability instead deals 1 point of Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma damage (victim’s choice). When a creatures loses a spell slot or takes ability damage from this ability, the thought eater gains 1 PE (up to a maximum of its total daily PE; 5 for most thought eaters).
Ethereal Body (Su) A thought eater’s skin and organs are composed primarily of ethereal tissue. The thought eater takes half damage from non-magical weapons, but is affected normally by magic weapons and spells. For every minute the thought eater remains on a plane other than the Ethereal Plane, it must spend 1 PE or take 1d6 points of damage as its body begins to dissipate.
Ethereal Passage (Sp) A thought eater can move from the Ethereal Plane to the Material Plane as a move action, and can move from the Material Plane to the Ethereal Plane as a full-round action. Moving from the Material Plane to the Ethereal Plane costs the thought eater 1 PE, although moving from the Ethereal Plane to the Material Plane does not. Both forms of movement provoke attacks of opportunity.
