https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/aberrations/vampiric-mist
Vampiric Mist CR 3
XP 800
NE Medium aberration (air, water)
Init +8; Senses darkvision 60 ft., sense blood; Perception +8
DEFENSE
AC 14, touch 14, flat-footed 10 (+4 Dex)
hp 30 (4d8+12)
Fort +4, Ref +5, Will +5
Defensive Abilities amorphous; DR 5/magic
Weaknesses vulnerable to fire
OFFENSE
Speed fly 50 ft. (perfect)
Melee touch +7 (bleed and blood siphon)
Special Attacks bleed (1d6)
STATISTICS
Str –, Dex 19, Con 16, Int 7, Wis 13, Cha 10
Base Atk +3; CMB –; CMD —
Feats Improved Initiative, Weapon Finesse
Skills Fly +12, Perception +8, Stealth +11
Languages Aklo
SQ blood overdose, misty form
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Blood Siphon (Ex) A vampiric mist drains blood with each melee touch attack dealing 1d3 points of Constitution damage. Every time a vampiric mist damages a creature in this way, it heals 1d8 hit points. Hit points healed in excess of its maximum are gained as temporary hit points, to a maximum amount equal to its Constitution score. These temporary hit points last for 1 hour.
Blood Overdose (Su) When a vampiric mist gorges on blood to an extent that it gains temporary hit points, it moves much more quickly. It gains a +2 bonus to its Armor Class and on Reflex saves, and can take one additional move action each round.
Misty Form (Ex) A vampiric mist’s body is composed of a semisolid red mist similar in consistency to thick foam. The vampiric mist does not have a Strength score, and it cannot manipulate or wear solid objects. This form grants it the amorphous defensive ability, and allows it to move through areas as small as 1 inch in diameter with no reduction to its speed. The creature can speak in a hissing voice. A vampiric mist cannot enter water or other fluids, and is treated as a creature two size categories smaller than its actual size (Tiny for most vampiric mists) for the purposes of how wind affects it.
Sense Blood (Ex) A vampiric mist can immediately sense the presence of warm-blooded creatures in a 60-foot radius as if by scent. It can detect exposed blood within a mile.
