https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/undead/vilkacis
Vilkacis CR 7
XP 9,600
CE Medium undead (incorporeal)
Init +10; Senses darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision, scent; Perception +15
DEFENSE
AC 19, touch 19, flat-footed 13 (+3 deflection, +6 Dex)
hp 85 (10d8+4)
Fort +6, Ref +11, Will +9
Defensive Abilities channel resistance +2, incorporeal, rejuvenation; DR 10/silver; Immune cold, undead traits
Weaknesses vulnerability to silver
OFFENSE
Speed fly 50 ft. (perfect)
Melee 2 incorporeal touches +15 (1d8 plus 2d6 cold)
Special Attacks bestial possession, curse of lycanthropy (DC 18)
STATISTICS
Str —, Dex 23, Con —, Int 8, Wis 14, Cha 17
Base Atk +7; CMB +13; CMD 26 (30 vs. trip)
Feats Blind-Fight, Combat Reflexes, Improved Initiative, Lightning Reflexes, Toughness
Skills Fly +14, Intimidate +16, Perception +15, Stealth +19
Languages Common
SQ lycanthropic empathy
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Bestial Possession (Su) A vilkacis is a spirit of savagery and can take control of other beings, afflicting them with its savage nature. Once per round, the vilkacis can merge its body with a creature on the Material Plane. This ability is similar to a magic jar spell (caster level 10th), except it does not require a receptacle and lasts for up to 3 hours (or a number of hours equal to the vilkacis’s Charisma modifier, whichever is greater). To use this ability, the vilkacis must be adjacent to the target. The target can resist the attack with a successful DC 18 Will save. A creature that successfully saves is immune to that same vilkacis’s bestial possession for 24 hours. The save DC is Charisma-based.
Upon being possessed by a vilkacis, the target takes on a number of bestial features, most notably growing claws and vicious fangs, and flies into a savage rage. The victim gains two claws and a bite natural attack appropriate to its size (1d4 and 1d6 for Medium creatures; see Natural Attacks for other sizes), and gains a barbarian’s greater rage class ability.
This rage lasts for as long as the victim is being possessed by the vilkacis. After the possession ends, the victim is fatigued for a period of time equal to double the duration of the possession. The victim also gains low-light vision and scent. The possessed creature loses all of these natural attacks and abilities immediately when the vilkacis leaves its body.
Curse of Lycanthropy (Su) Any humanoid who is bitten by a creature possessed by a vilkacis must make a DC 18 Fortitude save or be infected with lycanthropy as if bitten by a werewolf. If the victim’s size is not within one size category of the possessed creature’s, this ability has no effect. The save DC uses the vilkacis’s ability scores and is Charisma-based.
Lycanthropic Empathy (Ex) A vilkacis or creature possessed by a vilkacis can communicate and empathize with wolves and dire wolves. It can use its Diplomacy to alter such an animal’s attitude, and when so doing gains a +4 racial bonus on the check.
Rejuvenation (Su) A vilkacis that is destroyed in combat restores itself after 2d4 days. The only way to permanently do away with a vilkacis is to locate its canopic stone, the occult artifact that binds it to the Material Plane, and then destroy the artifact in the presence of the vilkacis’s mortal remains. Once the canopic stone is destroyed, the vilkacis can no longer rejuvenate and can be destroyed as normal.
Vulnerability to Silver (Su) Vilkacis are particularly susceptible to silver. A vilkacis struck with a silver weapon takes an additional 2d6 points of damage. If a creature under the effects of a vilkacis’s bestial possession is damaged by a silver weapon, it also takes this extra damage and receives another saving throw to resist the bestial possession. If successful, the possession ends, and the vilkacis is driven into an adjacent square and cannot use its bestial possession ability again until the following day.
