https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/outsiders/warped-one
Warped One CR 8
XP 4,800
CE Medium outsider (chaotic, evil, extraplanar)
Init +8; Senses darkvision 60 ft.; Perception +10; Aura warp field (30 ft.)
DEFENSE
AC 21, touch 14, flat-footed 17 (+4 Dex, +7 natural)
hp 105 (10d10+50)
Fort +12, Ref +9, Will +9
Defensive Abilities amorphous, insane; Immune mind-affecting effects, petrification, polymorph effects; Resist electricity 10; SR 19
OFFENSE
Speed 30 ft.
Melee 4 claws +16 (1d4+6/19–20)
Special Attacks fleshwarping
Spell-Like Abilities (CL 8th; concentration +10)
Constant— blur
At will— dimension door (self plus 50 lbs. of objects only)
1/day—unstable summoning STATISTICS
Str 22, Dex 19, Con 20, Int 12, Wis 5, Cha 15
Base Atk +10; CMB +16; CMD 30 (34 vs. trip)
Feats Combat Reflexes, Improved Critical (claws), Improved Initiative, Lightning Reflexes, Skill Focus (Stealth)
Skills Acrobatics +17, Climb +19, Knowledge (planes) +14, Perception +10, Stealth +23, Swim +19, Use Magic Device +15
Languages Abyssal
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Fleshwarping (Su) A warped one’s body constantly shifts and changes as raw Abyssal energies course through it, reshaping and rebuilding it in minor but hideous ways. Once a warped one enters combat, these growing energies begin to alter its statistics in small ways. At the start of a warped one’s turn, roll on the following table to see what additional effect its fleshwarping has on it for that round—all of the following mutations have a duration of 1 round unless otherwise noted.
d8 Result Effect
1 Infusion of Chaos The warped one’s body ripples and shifts rapidly as it grows and absorbs fingers, tendrils, sightless eyes, toothless mouths, tumors, and other mostly useless organs out of its body. The warped one gains DR 10/lawful.
2 Enhanced Musculature The warped one grows much more muscular. It gains a +2 enhancement bonus on melee attack rolls, melee weapon damage, CMB checks, Strength-based checks, and to its CMD.
3 Lean and Swift The warped one grows lean and agile, with longer legs and additional joints in its limbs. It gains a +2 dodge bonus to its AC, a +2 enhancement bonus on Reflex saves, and its speed increases by 10 feet.
4 Prismatic Scales Multicolored scales grow from the warped one’s flesh. It gains resistance to acid 10, cold 10, and fire 10.
5 Razor-Sharp Talons The warped one’s claws grow additional, sharper talons. Its claw attacks gain bleed 1d6.
6 Multiple Eyes The warped one grows additional eyes and other sensory organs. It gains a +8 bonus on Perception checks and gains all-around vision.
7 Accelerated Metabolism The warped one sheds its claws and teeth and immediately grows new ones, its wounds heal, and its colors grow brighter. It gains a +2 enhancement bonus on Fortitude saves and immediately heals 3d8+10 points of damage (if it’s currently unwounded, it gains these hit points as temporary hit points that last for 1 hour or until depleted).
8 Armor Plating The warped one grows a thick hide and dark scaly plates granting it DR 5/, and its natural armor bonus increases by +4.
Insanity (Ex) A warped one’s mind is completely unhinged, a raw chaos of madness. It uses its Charisma modifier on Will saves instead of its Wisdom modifier, and it is immune to mind-affecting effects. Any attempt to contact a warped one telepathically (including using spells like detect thoughts) produces a backlash effect, dealing 1d4 points of Charisma damage to the one attempting the contact. A DC 17 Will save negates this effect. The save DC is Charisma-based.
Unstable Summoning (Sp) A warped one can rend the boundaries between worlds to summon creatures to aid it in combat, but it has little control over what sorts of monsters or demons respond to its summonings. When a warped one uses its unstable summoning, there’s a 50% chance that a creature (or a group of creatures) arrives to aid the warped one. Creatures summoned in this way are immune to that particular warped one’s warp field. To determine the nature of the summoned aid, roll on the table below. This is a 5th-level spell effect.
d8 Result
1 1d4+1 mephits (determine type randomly)
2 1d4+1 Medium elementals (determine type randomly)
3 1d3 salamanders
4 1d3 Large elementals (determine type randomly)
5 1d3 babaus
6 1 shadow demon
7 1 succubus
8 1 warped one
Warp Field (Su) A warped one exudes a field of mental and physical entropic energy to a radius of 30 feet that twists and warps the minds and bodies of all other living creatures.
Creatures who begin their turn inside of a warp field must succeed at a DC 17 Will save. Failure indicates that the creature is confused for 1 round and suffers one mutation from the table below. These mutations emerge swiftly and painfully, causing the victim to become sickened for 1 round and to gain one random mutation from the following table for 1 round. Once a creature succeeds at its saving throw against a warp field, it is immune to further effects from that specific warped one’s warp field for 24 hours. This is a polymorph effect. The save DCs are Charisma-based.
d8 Result Effect
1 Club Foot One of your feet becomes badly deformed. Reduce your speed by 10 feet.
2 Cataracts Your eyes film over with cataracts. You are blinded.
3 Demonic Horns You grow several bony horns from your skull. You must succeed at a DC 17 Reflex save or any headband or hat you wear becomes broken.
4 Boneless Mass You fall prone and your movement rate is reduced to 0 feet. You must succeed at a DC 17 Fortitude save to avoid being stunned for 1 round.
5 Twisted Hands Your hands twist and deform. You drop all held objects and worn rings and cannot use your hands to make attacks or cast spells for 1 round.
6 Twisted Visage Your face deforms into a hideous mockery. You cannot speak or cast spells with verbal components.
7 Malnourished You become skeletally thin. All worn items (save boots, head, and headband items) drop from your body, and you must succeed at a DC 17 Fortitude save to avoid being entangled in your gear. When you return to your normal shape 1 round later, dropped items remain on the ground in your square.
8 Obesity You become monstrously obese. Your land speed is reduced to 5 feet. In addition, if you fail a DC 17 Reflex save, any items you have equipped in the armor, belt, body, chest, neck, shoulders, or wrist slots become broken.
