https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/magical-beasts/wizard-s-shackle-tohc
Wizard’s Shackle CR 1/3
XP 135
N Diminutive magical beast
Init +0; Senses arcanesense 30 ft., blindsight 10 ft.; Perception +4
DEFENSE
AC 14, touch 14, flat-footed 14 (+4 size)
hp 5 (1d10)
Fort +2, Ref +0, Will +0
Defensive Abilities sealed mind
OFFENSE
Speed 5 ft.
Melee bite +5 (1d2-5 plus attach)
Space 1 ft.; Reach 0 ft.
Special Attacks spell drain
TACTICS
A wizard’s shackle attacks from ambush. It favors hiding on ledges, bookshelves, doors, and other such places where it can drop on spellcasters that pass underneath it. A wizard’s shackle injects an anesthetic when it bites, so it is possible that its bite goes unnoticed (DC 12 Perception check to notice).
STATISTICS
Str 1, Dex 10, Con 11, Int 1, Wis 11, Cha 2
Base Atk +1; CMB -3 (+17 grapple when attached); CMD 2 (22 vs. grapple when attached)
Feats Weapon Finesse
Skills Perception +4
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Arcanesense (Su) A wizard’s shackle can automatically detect the location of any arcane spellcaster within 30 feet.
This functions in a similar fashion to a detect evil spell but there is no chance the wizard’s shackle is stunned and it is not blocked by stone, lead, or other material.
Attach (Ex) If a wizard’s shackle hits with a bite attack, it latches onto the opponent’s body. An attached wizard’s shackle is effectively grappling its prey. The wizard’s shackle loses its Dexterity bonus to AC and has an AC of 14, but holds on with great tenacity. Wizard’s shackles have a +20 racial bonus on grapple checks (already figured into the CMB and CMD entries above).
An attached wizard’s shackle can be struck with a weapon or grappled itself. To remove an attached wizard’s shackle through grappling, the opponent must achieve a pin against the wizard’s shackle.
Sealed Mind (Ex) A wizard’s shackle is immune to all mind-affecting effects (charms, compulsions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects).
Spell Drain (Su) A wizard’s shackle drains spells when attached to an arcane spellcaster. Each round the wizard’s shackle remains attached, it drains 1d6 levels of prepared spells or unused slots, beginning with the highest level spell or slot available. For example, on a roll of 4 against a 5th-level wizard, a wizard’s shackle drains four levels of prepared spells. The wizard currently has one 3rd-level spell, two 2nd-level spells, and three 1st-level spells prepared. The wizard’s shackle drains the 3rd-level spell and one of the 1st-level spells (determined randomly).
A creature drained of spells or slots can attempt a DC 12 Intelligence check with a +2 bonus to notice that something is wrong (though unless he searches his body, he might still overlook the wizard’s shackle). Once a wizard’s shackle has drained at least 4 spell levels, it detaches and crawls away to digest its meal. Lost spells or slots can be regained normally.
