https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/plants/yellow-musk-creeper
Yellow Musk Creeper
CR 2
XP 600
N Medium plant
Init +2; Senses tremorsense 30 ft.; Perception +0
DEFENSE
AC 14, touch 12, flat-footed 12 (+2 Dex, +2 natural)
hp 22 (3d8+9)
Fort +6, Ref +3, Will +1
Defensive Abilities plant traits
OFFENSE
Speed 5 ft.
Melee tendril +5 (1d4+4)
Space 5 ft., Reach 10 ft.
Special Attacks create yellow musk zombie, pollen spray
STATISTICS
Str 17, Dex 15, Con 16, Int —, Wis 11, Cha 8
Base Atk +2; CMB +5; CMD 17 (can’t be tripped)
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Create Yellow Musk Zombie (Su) As a full-round action, a yellow musk creeper can bore dozens of tendrils into the brain of a helpless creature within reach, such as a creature entranced by its pollen. This attack inflicts 1d4 points of Intelligence damage per round. When a creature is reduced to 0 Intelligence, it dies, and the tendrils break off inside its brain. One hour later, the creature animates as a yellow musk zombie (see below).
Pollen Spray (Ex) As a standard action, a yellow musk creeper can spray a cloud of pollen at a single creature within 30 feet. It must make a +4 ranged touch attack to strike the target, who must then succeed on a DC 14 Will save or be entranced for 1d6 rounds. An entranced creature can take no action other than to move at its normal speed into a space within the yellow musk creeper’s reach, at which point an entranced creature remains motionless and allows the creeper to insert tendrils into its brain. The save DC is Constitution-based.
Yellow Musk Zombie A yellow musk zombie is a rotting creature from which wet green vines have sprouted. Treat a yellow musk zombie as a standard zombie, but with this special quality.

Plant Traits (Ex) This zombie’s animation is provided not by necromancy but by the plant that grows throughout its body. Yellow musk zombies lack undead traits, but gain plant traits. They are treated as plants, not undead, for the resolution of magical effects and attacks. Channel energy cannot harm a yellow musk zombie, for example, nor does negative energy heal a yellow musk zombie.
