https://www.d20pfsrd.com/bestiary/monster-listings/vermin/zhen-worm
Zhen Worm CR 1/2
XP 200
N Medium vermin
Init –1; Senses tremorsense 60 ft.; Perception +0
DEFENSE
AC 9, touch 9, flat-footed 9 (–1 Dex)
hp 5 (1d8+1)
Fort +3, Ref –1, Will +0
Defensive Abilities protective mucus; Immune gaze attacks, mind-affecting effects, sight-based attacks, and visual effects
Weaknesses blindness
OFFENSE
Speed 20 ft., burrow 10 ft., swim 20 ft.
Melee slam +1 (1d4+1 plus grab)
Special Attacks constrict (1d4+1), dissolve flesh
STATISTICS
Str 12, Dex 9, Con 13, Int —, Wis 10, Cha 1
Base Atk +0; CMB +1; CMD 10
Feats Blind-Fight B
Skills Stealth –1 (+9 in swamps), Swim +9; Racial Modifiers +10 Stealth in swamps
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Blindness (Ex) A zhen worm perceives solely through its tremorsense ability. It is immune to all sight-based effects and attacks, including gaze attacks.
Dissolve Flesh (Ex) Though too dilute to cause damage in combat, a zhen worm’s acidic mucus reduces a Medium-sized corpse to bones and a pool of foul-smelling slurry in 1d4 days. Each size category above Medium doubles the amount of time required, and each size category smaller than Medium halves it.
Protective Mucus (Ex) Weapons slip off the slick slime that coats a zhen worm, and fire has difficulty burning it away.
Zhen worms take half damage from weapons and fire. This ability does not reduce damage from confirmed critical hits.
Zhen Distillate
Through alchemical processes, zhen worm mucus can be distilled into a preservative ointment. When spread liberally over a dead game animal, zhen distillate preserves the meat for 1 month. If left on for at least 3 days, the distillate dissolves away hair, nails, and skin, while leaving muscles and organs untouched. If not thoroughly washed away with wine or a similar alcoholic liquid, zhen distillate leaves behind a foul aftertaste. A flask of zhen distillate weighs 1 pound, costs 50 gp, and preserves the corpse of a Large creature. Each step up or down from Large doubles or halves, respectively, the amount of distillate needed.
The mucus harvested from a single zhen worm can be processed into one flask of distillate with a successful DC 25 Craft (alchemy) check.
